#DatabseConcepts [[4. Data Dictionary]]
## Attribute Types and Instances
- Attribute types represent descriptive primitive values associated with an entity type or relationship type
- Attributes of a person entity might include; first name, last name, social security number, date of birth, place of birth
- An attribute instance is a specific value for an attribute type associated with a specific entity or relationship
## Defining Attributes
- Description information about an Entity or Relationship
- Possible values must be atomic (smallest value)
	- Name or Address are not atomic
- An attribute is defined in terms of: 
	- A unique attribute type name
	- An entity or relationship the attribute type is associated with
	- A data type (i.e. integer, string, etc.) that defines the domain or possible instance values the attribute can have

# Attribute Standards
## Attribute Naming
- Describes the Entity/Relationship
- Must be unique within an entity
- Should be a noun
- Limit 40 characters
- Multiple-word names
	- Each word Title-Case
	- Underscore between words
## Attribute type Class Exercise
- A company consists of a number of business units. Every product in our company must be managed by one and only one business unit. Each business unit has multiple products it manages. An employee is assigned to a single product. Products must have unique names. They also have prices and descriptions. Each business unit has a name that is unique within the company.  
- What attribute type names (conceptual schema) are suggested by the above description for each entity type?