Hello my name is Aidan Hubley and today I'm going to share six takeaways from Chapter 10 Chapter 11 and Chapter 12 of The Fifth Domain.

Chapter 10 of the book is titled Power Grids and Power Plays. 

In 2003 a major poweroutage occurred in US. New York was dark, as well as Cleveland, Pittsburgh and a large portion of the NorthEast. At the time some were pushing for an increase in protection of the power grid while others fought this push and largely won. This poweroutage led to, at the time, seemingly ridiculous claims about terrorism in the US, or a cyber attack, and more. And the truth is, the power grid was vulnerable to cyber attacks. It would later be investigated and ultimately blamed on a tree falling on a powerline in Ohio. That is not my takeaway from this incident. My takeaway from this incident is that it seemingly takes a genuinely cyber attack, to get the attention towards vulnerabilities. In this case study there were those forwarding thinking few who recognized the vulnerabilities within the power grid and sought to improve its security. They were fought back and defeated to ultimately save costs on what they opposition figured to be a waste of money. Then when the power did go out, everyone's first thought was an attack on the US, and I would think the same seeing how we intentionally didn't get rid of vulnerabilities. I think is thought process is the biggest red flag when in the cyber field, we need to be future focus, and prepared to backtrack and remove vulnerability as a financial cost.

My second takeaway from this chapter is about self-regulation. The question is, how hard should the government enforce security on the private sector? There are two organizations in play, a self-regulatory body in the private sector called NERC and a regulatory body in the government called FERC. FERC tended to follow the NERC's rules for cybersecurity. Meaning the government would take a more invested approach to how NERC handles itself, seeing how FERC would likely copy it's rules. At the time of this blackout only 90% of the grid was investigated and declared it "low impact." In addition of the investigated FERC now requires cyber incidents on the grid to be reported. In 2015 and 2016 no one reported anything. It was too late, by 2017 Homeland Security was informing power grid companies that adversaries to the US had been attempting to penetrate the US power grid. Some companies were not shocked by this because they had been monitoring it for years. Others refused to hear it, calling it "nerk sip" exclaiming that they could not afford to do anything more and that it was the government's job to save them from foreign affairs. So, is it? Should the government truly step into the private sector? I think not, in fact I think it makes the most sense to enforce a more proactive approach than a reactive one. That is mainly what has been done so far, fines are given out to the private sector all the time for lapses in security. I think this is a great mentality to be in when approach cyber security. 


Chapter 11 of the book is titled Securing the Feds.

CyberCorps sounds amazing, but my biggest takeaway from it is that it needs to have a more varied leveling system. The Corps should have some start at levels the do not require top-secret clearances, and further more the other half of the government needs cyber defenders too, overall I think either a new Cyber Corps needs to be made or it needs to be rebuilt entirely.

Having 50 states governments has its benefits and I would suggest objective downfalls, but one thing this system does well at is to create information technology departments. It is likely that no state agency is able to recruit enough IT pros to run a network. The solution to this is to make All IT functions into services that state agencies buy from the one state agency that specializes in computer science, network management, data storage and cybersecurity. This is a largely more innovative idea that simply issuing cybersecurity rules and guidelines and hoping all agencies that the rules are import enough to spend money on. This new IT department would be responsible for securing everything. I love this idea, I think it solves more than just one issues. On the one handle, it is optional, not all agencies would need to buy it. While other agencies who would struggle to follow guidelines on their own can buy into this new IT department. This type of problem solving with variable solutions is exactly the type of approach the cyber field is in need of now.

Chapter 12 is titled The Military, Domains, and Dominance

My first takeaway is the mainly the question "Can an organization designed for war contribute to the lowering of tensions and a reduction in the likelihood of conflict?" The Pentagon thinks about cyberspace with "Dominate the domain" and a "we will defend or halt malicious cyber activity at its source, including activity that falls below the level of armed conflict." At first the answer to this question seems to be an easy no, the pentagon is set on retaliation or domination. How could that possibly led to a lowering of tensions or lower chance of conflict? Well it turns out that the reality that there is already a daily competition in cyberspace with Russia, China, and others, even in the absence of a declared war. By engaging more vigorously against Russian and Chinese cyber units, the Pentagon believes it can eventually create stability in cyberspace. So ultimately I do believe the Pentagon has the ability to bring some stability to cyberspace even if it takes action without an armed conflict.

My second takeaway is on how to fix the instability throughout the world's cyber affairs. The book suggests seven measures. This consisted of Unity of Command, a single leader who everyone falls under, this is to ultimately bring the force to a cohesive hierarchy. Next is the idea of Clarity of Mission, which is self explanatory. Then you have supporting Diplomatic Arrangements, System Failure Capabilities, Resource Adequacy, and Escalation Domaince. These all are vital for the US to do but what I believe is most important is the book's Crash Program to Secure the U.S. Arsenal. It explains that we can and should not wait for a real war to discover that a weapon or system we have does not work because an adversary has taken control. They go on to suggest that the Secretary of Defense should have no higher priority than determining the extent of the cyber vulnerabilities of U.S. weapons systems. My takeaway here is that within all of the government's responsibilities, cybersecurity falls at the front, and the reason for this is not just a reactive or proactive reason. Cybersecurity is a war on two fronts, you need to have proactive defenses to monitor your system, while also have reactive plans in case of an attack. Without a real war being declared on the US, we sure have fought vigorously in the cyberspace on a daily basis. Cybersecurity, cyber warfare, it is the future and the US is finally prioritizing it. 

That is all I have for you today. This has been my takeaways from chapters 10, 11, and 12 of The Fifth Domain. Thank for watching and have a good day. 