# Facts
## Firewalls
A _firewall_ is a software- or hardware-based network security system that allows or denies network traffic according to a set of rules.

You can categorize firewalls by their location on the network:
### Network-based firewall
A network-based firewall is installed on the edge of a private network or network segment.

-   Most network-based firewalls are considered hardware firewalls even though they use a combination of hardware and software to protect the network from internet attacks.
-   Network-based firewalls are more expensive and require more configuration than other types of firewalls, but they are much more robust and secure.

### Host-based firewall
A network-based firewall is installed on the edge of a private network or network segment.

-   Most network-based firewalls are considered hardware firewalls even though they use a combination of hardware and software to protect the network from internet attacks.
-   Network-based firewalls are more expensive and require more configuration than other types of firewalls, but they are much more robust and secure.

## Access Control Lists
Firewalls use filtering rules to identify allowed and blocked traffic. The filtering rules are also referred to as access control lists. A rule identifies:

-   The interface the rule applies to.
-   Whether the traffic is inbound or outbound.
-   Packet information (source IP address, destination IP address, port number).

Firewalls do not offer protection against all attacks. Some attacks, such as email spoofing attacks, malware, and viruses require additional security controls


## Firewall Types
### Packet-filtering firewall
A packet-filtering firewall allows and blocks network traffic by examining information in the IP packet header such as source and destination addresses, ports, and service protocols. A packet filtering firewall:

-   Uses ACLs or filter rules to control traffic.
-   Operates at OSI Layer 3 (Network layer).
-   Offers high performance because it examines only the address information in the packet header.
-   Implements features that are included in most routers.
-   Is a popular solution because it is easy to implement and maintain; has a minimal impact on system performance; and is inexpensive.

A packet-filtering firewall is considered a stateless firewall because it examines each packet and uses rules to accept or reject it without considering whether the packet is part of a valid and active session.


### Circuit-level gateway
A circuit-level gateway makes decisions about the traffic to allow based on virtual circuits or sessions. A circuit-level gateway:

-   Operates at OSI Layer 5 (Session layer).
-   Keeps a table of known connections and sessions.
-   Accepts packets directed to known sessions.
-   Verifies that packets are properly sequenced.
-   Ensures that the TCP three-way handshake process occurs only when appropriate.
-   Does not filter packets. Instead, it allows or denies sessions.

A circuit-level gateway is considered a stateful firewall because it keeps track of a session's state. A circuit-level gateway can filter traffic that uses dynamic ports because the firewall matches the session information for filtering, not port numbers.  
  
In general, circuit-level gateways are slower than packet filtering firewalls. However, if you use only the session state for filtering, a circuit-level gateway can be faster after the initial session information has been identified.


### Application-layer firewall
An application-layer firewall is capable of filtering by the information contained within a packet's data portion. An application-layer firewall:

-   Examines the entirety of the transferred content (not just individual packets).
-   Operates at OSI Layer 7 (Application layer).
-   Understands (interfaces with) the application-layer protocol.
-   Filters content by user, group, and data. For example, URLs within an HTTP request.
-   Is the slowest form of firewall because entire messages are reassembled at the Application layer.

One example of an application-layer firewall is a proxy server. A proxy server is a device that stands as an intermediary between a secure private network and the public. Proxies can be configured to:

-   Control both inbound and outbound traffic.
-   Increase performance by caching frequently accessed content. Content is retrieved from the proxy cache instead of the original server.
-   Filter content and restrict access depending on the user or specific website.
-   Shield or hide a private network.

There are two types of proxy servers:

-   A forward proxy server handles requests from inside a private network out to the internet.
-   A reverse proxy server handles requests from the internet to a server located inside a private network. A reverse proxy can perform load balancing, authentication, and caching.

### Unified threat management (UTM) device
A unified threat management device combines multiple security features into a single network appliance. A single UTM device can provide several security features:

-   Firewall
-   VPN
-   Anti-spam
-   Antivirus
-   Load balancing

By combining several services into one appliance, UTM devices make managing network security much easier. However, they also introduce a single point of failure. If the UTM fails, network security is lost.  
  
Additionally, UTM devices are not as robust as other devices made for specific use. Because of this, UTM devices are best suited for:

-   Offices with space limits that do not allow for multiple security appliances.
-   Satellite offices that need to be managed remotely. Configuration changes are made on only one device rather than multiple devices.
-   Smaller businesses that do not need the robust features provided by specific security appliances.

### Next-generation firewall (NGFW)
A next-generation firewall combines a traditional firewall with other network device filtering functionalities such as an application firewall. An NGFW:

-   Is application-aware.
-   Tracks the state of traffic based on layers 2 through 7.
-   Utilizes an intrusion protection system (IPS).
-   Tracks the identity of the local traffic device and user (LDAP, RADIUS, Active Directory).
-   Can be used in bridged and routed modes.
-   Utilizes external intelligence sources.


A common method for using firewalls is to define various network zones. Each zone identifies a collection of users who have similar access needs. Firewalls are configured at the edge of these zones to filter incoming and outbound traffic.

For example, you can define a zone that includes all hosts on your private network protected from the internet. You can define another zone within your network for controlled access to specific servers that hold sensitive information.

## Firewall Rules
The firewall scans incoming and outgoing network traffic. It compares that traffic to the rules you have defined. Then it decides whether the traffic should be allowed or denied.

The following table describes the two ways that you can use a deny.
### Implicit deny
By default, most firewalls deny all traffic. This is called implicit deny. You must manually specify the traffic you want to allow through the firewall; everything else is blocked.

### Explicit deny
Explicit deny is used to deny permissions to a specific user even when the rest of the user’s group is allowed access.


# Linux Firewall Facts
## iptables
iptables is a command line firewall utility for Linux operating systems. It uses three policy chains to allow or block network traffic.

When a connection is initiated to a system, iptables looks for a rule in its list to match it to. If a match is not found, it resorts to the default action in the tables. iptables almost always come pre-installed on a Linux distribution.

To update or install iptables, retrieve the iptables package by entering the command: **sudo apt install iptables-services**

iptable uses the following three chains.
Input

Controls the behavior of incoming connections. For example, if a user attempts to ping a system, iptables attempts to match the IP address and port to a rule in the input chain.

Forward

Is used for incoming connections that aren't delivered locally. An example is iptables used on a router. The traffic is not destined for the router, but the router forwards the traffic to the destination device.

Output

Is used for outgoing connections. For example, if you try to ping testout.com, iptables checks its output chain to see the rules regarding ping and testout.com before allowing or denying the ping request.

You decide the action you want the rules to perform. You can accept, drop, or reject the connection. After you define the accepted rules, create a rule to drop all other traffic to prevent unauthorized access to the system.
Accept

Allows the connection.

Drop

Drops the connection. For example, if someone pings the system, the request is dropped. No response is sent to the user.

Reject

Does not allow the connection but does send a response back. This lets the sender know that the transmission reached a system but was rejected.

## Examples
The following table describes examples of iptables commands and their uses. Keep in mind that these are only a few examples; there are many more.
**sudo iptables -L**Lists all the current rules.

**sudo iptables -F**Clears all the current rules.

**sudo /sbin/iptables-save**Saves changes to the iptables on Ubuntu systems. The command may differ on other Linux systems.

**sudo iptables -A INPUT -j DROP**Drops all incoming traffic.

**sudo iptables -A INPUT -s 192.168.0.254 -j DROP**Blocks all connections associated with the IP address of 192.168.0.254.

