#DataCommNetworking [[3. Screened Subnets (DMZ)]]
# Unified Threat Management (UTM) Appliances Facts
## UTM Benefits
The primary benefit of a UTM is to provide a well-rounded security solution, while also reducing administrative requirements.

Because UTMs can eliminate the need to install and manage multiple security devices, a UTM may be a good choice for small to mid-sized companies. Because UTM services can be customized and expanded over time, UTMs are a great option for start-up companies or companies with a limited budget, minimal office space, or for companies with remote locations.

## UTM Firewalls
A UTM firewall can be configured to use either flow-based or proxy-based inspection.
### Flow-based inspection

Flow-based inspection is the most frequently used setting and is usually enabled by default. Flow-based inspection takes samples (snapshots) of data as it enters the UTM.  
  
It then uses pattern matching to seek out possible threats and block them in real-time. Flow-based inspection is recommended when traffic throughput and speed are a priority.

### Proxy-based inspection

Proxy-based inspection buffers all traffic entering the UTM. All packets are held until the entire email, web page or file has been inspected.  
  
If the packets pass inspection, they are sent to the destination. If not, they are dropped and a message is sent in its place. Proxy-based inspection is recommended when data integrity is a priority.

## UTM Functions
UTMs security functions can include:

-   Antivirus and malware filter
-   Web filter
-   DNS filter
-   Email filter
-   VPN
-   Data leak prevention
-   Application control

In addition to serving as a firewall, a UTM appliance may also include the following network functions:

-   Switch
-   Router
-   Intrusion detection system
-   Load balancer
-   DNS server

A UTM is typically installed at the edge of a network, between the private network and the internet so that any incoming and outgoing traffic can be analyzed. Depending on the organization’s needs, you may decide to install UTM software onto your physical or cloud-based servers. You may also opt to use virtual UTM appliances in virtual environments.

# Firewall Selection

Packet filtering is the most basic functionality offered by a firewall. However, additional features are available. Depending on your security needs, you may choose a firewall with more advanced functionality. Answer the following questions when selecting a firewall.

-   Does the firewall support encryption?
-   Does the firewall support user authentication?
-   Does the firewall have IDS or IPS options?
-   Is the firewall stateful or stateless?
    -   A stateful firewall allows or denies traffic by examining information in IP packet headers.
    -   A stateless firewall allows or denies traffic based on virtual circuits of sessions. A stateful firewall is also known as a circuit-level proxy or a circuit-level gateway.

Most newer firewalls have flood guard protections built into their feature sets. A flood guard protects against denial-of-service (DoS) and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. The main types of DoS attacks are flood attacks, SYN floods, ping floods, UDP floods, and port floods. The following table explains a few common firewall security features to look for.

Feature

Description

Block ping to WAN

Helps prevent attackers from discovering a network through ICMP echo (ping) requests.

Stealth mode

Prevents the response to port scans from the WAN. This protects against port floods.

TCP flood

Drops all invalid TCP packets. This protects a network from SYN flood attacks.

UDP flood

Helps prevent UDP flood attacks by metering the number of simultaneous, active UDP connections from a single computer on the internal network.

ICMP notification

Can silently block the sending of ICMP notifications. Some protocols may require these notifications.

Fragmented packets

Blocks the sending of fragmented IP packets.

SYN flood detect rate

Monitors the rate of SYN packets during a configuration period to help prevent SYN flood. Too many SYN packets cause the firewall to determine that an SYN flood is occurring and to trigger the appropriate response.

Echo storm detect rate

Monitors the rate of SYN packets during a configuration period to help prevent SYN floods. Too many SYN packets cause the firewall to determine that an SYN flood is occurring and to trigger the appropriate response.

ICMP flood detect rate  

Monitors non-ping ICMP packets. Too many cause the firewall to determine that an ICMP flood is occurring and trigger the appropriate response.  

## Firewall Placement

When placing a firewall, a good starting point is to ask, “What is this firewall’s purpose?” A firewall’s primary function tells you where it should be located. Key points are:

-   In most circumstances, a network-based firewall sits at the edge of a network.
-   A routed firewall is also a Layer 3 router.
-   Many hardware routers include firewall functionality.
    -   This firewall acts as a barrier between the entire network and the outside external network, which is typically the internet.
    -   Based on the configuration, it filters all network traffic going to and from the external network.
-   A host-based firewall, functions similarly, but it protects only a single computer.

Another commonly used firewall placement option involves a screened subnet, also known as a demilitarized zone. With a screened subnet, an organization exposes some servers to the public through the internet. These servers allow internet mail, web servers, extranet, or VPN servers.

In most cases, a screened subnet uses a firewall with a connection to the screened subnet that’s separate from the internal network connection.

## Firewall Configuration

Depending on the firewall manufacturer and model, the configuration steps may be different. Familiarize yourself with firewall options and setup before you begin configuration.

Best practices for firewall configuration include:

-   Change the default username and password. Ensure that the new password is complex. This means using capital letters, numbers, lowercase letters, and special characters, such as #, &, $, etc.
-   Make sure the environment is not so restrictive that the organization cannot continue its normal operations.
-   Make sure that the environment is not so lenient that it exposes the organization to external attacks.
-   Update the firewall regularly. Ensure that the firewall contains the latest patches and firmware updates to keep it safe from attacks.

## Firewall ACL

Stateless firewalls use access control lists to identify allowed and blocked traffic.

The benefits of a firewall ACL include:

Benefit

Description

Security

The primary benefit of an ACL is security. You can restrict specific users, specific networks, or packets that use unusual protocols.

Traffic control

An ACL can help control traffic by regulating each packet that enters or exits the network. It can help stop unwanted packets while permitting valid packets to flow through to the destination.

Network performance

A firewall may slightly slow traffic while it is filtering. However, overall network performance will be improved because unwanted and unnecessary traffic is not processed.

  
There are two types of firewall ACLs:

  

Description

Standard ACL

Standard ACLs:

-   Identify traffic based on the destination address.
-   Are used by route maps and VPN filters.
-   Use the number ranges 1-99 and 1300-1999.
-   Should be placed as close to the destination as possible.

Extended ACL

Extended ACLs:

-   Are the most used type of ACL.
-   Are used for access rules that permit or deny traffic through a device.
-   Can filter by multiple factors including source protocol, source host name, destination host name, etc.
-   Use the number ranges 100-199 and 2000-2699.
-   Should be placed as close to the source as possible.

Common uses for an extended ACL include:

-   Control network access for IP traffic.
-   Identify traffic for VPN access and filtering.
-   Allow remote access VPNs to configure client firewalls and set dynamic access policies.

> Group policies for remote access or VPNs can use standard or extended ACLs for filtering.

## Access control entries

ACLs are a set of rules or conditions that tell the firewall whether to allow, restrict, or block a packet. An access control entry is an individual rule within the ACL. These rules are stored in a text file and are read by the firewall when it starts up. The firewall does exactly what the rules tell it to do. Operating in an if-then format, the action occurs if the condition of a rule is met.

Information

Description

Source address

Address that the packet is from (IP address, IP range, MAC address, or host name).

Source port

The port that the packets were sent through (port number or port range).

Destination address

Address that the packet is trying to reach (IP address, IP range, MAC address, or host name).

Destination port

The port that the packets are being sent to (port number or port range).

Direction

The direction of traffic (inbound or outbound).

Protocol

The protocol used to send or receive packets (TCP, ICMP, UDP, etc.). Each ACL applies to a specific protocol.

Action

The action to take when the traffic matches the filter criteria (deny or allow).

Line number

The line number parameter inserts a rule at the correct location in the ACL.

When configuring access control entries, consider the following:

Consideration

Description

Order of ACEs

The order of ACEs is important. Once a match is found, no more ACEs are checked. Because of this, start with the more specific rules first, followed by the more general rules.

Deny any statement

To ensure that unwanted traffic does not pass through the firewall, add a deny any statement to the end of the list. If traffic has been permitted by previous entries, this final statement will ensure that the traffic does not pass through.  
  
Cisco devices automatically have an implied deny any entry at the end of an ACL. Although you will not see the entry, any packet not specifically permitted by an earlier entry will be denied.

ACL naming

Each ACL should have a unique name or numeric ID. Best practices for ACL naming include:

-   Use uppercase letters so you can easily find the name when viewing configurations.
-   Use a naming convention that will help you identify the purpose of the ACL. For example, inside_access_out could describe an ACL applied to the inside interface handling outbound traffic.
-   Use traditional numerical ACL naming if it helps with consistency. Note that numerical naming with the following ranges is no longer enforced.
    -   Standard ACLs were range 1-99 or 1300-1999.
    -   Extended ACLs were 100-199 or 2000-2699.

Commands

You can use the following commands with ACLs.

-   The **show access-list** command shows the contents of the ACL.
-   The **Access-list _name_ [line _line-num] type parameters_** command adds an ACE to an extended ACL.
    -   Line numbers can be specified only in extended ACLs.
    -   If a line number is not included, the ACE is added to the end of an ACL.