# IDS
An _intrusion detection system_ (IDS) is a device or software that monitors, logs, and detects security breaches. An IDS is a critical part of a network because it alerts administrators to possible network intrusions. The purpose of an IDS is not to prevent an attack, but instead to alert the IT security team of a possible threat.

## IDS Monitoring Methods
An IDS monitors data packets for malicious or unauthorized traffic. It works by comparing packets to the signatures of known attack types or by detecting anomalies in activity. The IDS alerts administrators of potentially malicious activities.

The following table describes the two types of detection methods.

### Signature-based
Malicious packets have a unique fingerprint that an IDS uses to detect their presence. These fingerprints are referred to as signatures. Signature-based detection, also referred to as pattern matching, dictionary recognition, or misuse-detection (MD-IDS), looks for patterns in network traffic and compares them to known signatures.

-   Signatures are written and updated by the IDS vendors.
-   Signature-based detection cannot detect unknown attacks; it can detect only those attacks identified by published signature files. For this reason, it is important to update signature files regularly.

### Anomaly-based
Anomaly-based detection (also referred to as heuristic, behavioral, or statistical-based detection) first defines a baseline of normal network traffic and then monitors it. It looks for anything that falls outside that baseline. Anomaly-based systems work as follows:

-   Thresholds are defined and used to identify deviations from the baseline.
-   When the threshold is reached, an alert is generated, or action is taken.
-   Anomaly-based detection can recognize and respond to some unknown attacks (attacks that do not have a corresponding signature file).
-   This detection method usually causes more false positives than signature-based detection.

An IDS/IPS takes the following steps when monitoring traffic:

-   A sensor passes data from the source to the analyzer (engine).
-   The analyzer, analyzes the sensor data, generates alerts, and logs all activity. An alert is a message indicating an event of interest (such as a possible attack).
-   The IDS/IPS labels traffic based on the IDS/IPS interpretation of whether or not the traffic poses a threat, as described in the following table.

### Positive
  
A positive traffic assessment means that the system detected an attack.

-   The appropriate alarms and notifications are generated.
-   The correct actions are performed to prevent or stop the attack.

### False-positive
A false-positive traffic assessment means that the system identified harmless traffic as offensive and generated an alarm or stopped the traffic.


### Negative
A negative traffic assessment means that the system deemed the traffic harmless and let it pass.


### False-negative
A false-negative traffic assessment means that harmful traffic was allowed to pass without any alerts being generated or any actions being taken to stop it. This is the worst possible scenario.


## IDS Implementation Types
The following table describes IDS implementation types:

### Host-based intrusion detection system  
(HIDS)

An HIDS:

-   Monitors system data on an individual host, such as a server.
-   Analyzes changes made to operating system files, software applications, logs, etc.
-   Takes snapshots over time and raises an alert if malicious changes are detected.

The advantages of an HIDS are that it:

-   Can be used to monitor changes that you have made to applications and systems.
-   Can access encrypted data packets and protect sensitive information.
-   Examines historical data to detect elusive attacks that use non-conventional methods and are difficult to detect in real-time.
-   Does not affect network availability or throughput because it does not increase traffic volume.

The disadvantages of an HIDS are that it:

-   Uses a lot of disk space which can tax a host’s resources.
-   Is susceptible to the same attacks as a host.

### Network-based intrusion detection system  
(NIDS)

A NIDS is installed at the edge of a network. A NIDS:

-   Monitors traffic coming into and going out of a network.
-   Detects malicious or unusual incoming and outgoing traffic.

The advantages of a NIDS are that it:

-   Reviews live data and detects issues in real-time.
-   Is easy to integrate into an existing network infrastructure with minimal disruption.
-   Is typically immune to direct attacks because attackers usually do not detect it.

The disadvantages of an NIDS are that it:

-   Cannot analyze encrypted data.
-   Cannot analyze fragmented packets.
-   Does not know the state of individual hosts.
-   Struggles with handling high traffic volume.

### Perimeter intrusion detection system  
(PIDS)

A PIDS is a physical device or sensor that triggers an alarm if:

-   Someone attempts to access physical servers or other important system infrastructures.
-   Access is attempted outside the intended channels.

A PIDS can alert you to trespassers and can easily be added to existing network devices or physical barriers.

### VMIDS

A VMIDS system is similar to other types of IDS but is implemented remotely via a virtual machine.  
  
The advantages of a VMIDS are that it:

-   Can be deployed remotely.
-   Detects intrusions by monitoring virtual machines.
-   Allows organizations to monitor traffic across all devices and systems that the devices are connected to.

The primary disadvantage of a VMIDS is that it may be ineffective if you lose the internet connection.


## Intrusion Protection System (IPS)
An IDS maintains a passive security role within the network. An _intrusion prevention system_ maintains an active security role within the network. In addition to performing the functions of an IDS, an IPS reacts when security breaches occur.

An IPS:

-   Can terminate sessions (using the TCP-RST command) or restart other processes on the system.
-   Can automate responses to malicious or suspicious traffic.
-   Performs behaviors that can be seen by anyone watching the network. Usually, these actions are necessary to block malicious activities or discover the identity of an intruder.
-   Updates filters and performs reverse lookups.

Using both a IDS and an IPS in a network provides the best network detection and protection. If a malicious packet makes it past the IPS, the IDS serves as a backup and alerts the security operations team.


