#Greece
Late night with friends, and a late morning. I was late for breakfast l, oh well. Food is getting a little too expected, not that it's bad but it's the same every morning. Still better than Lottie. 

I had to sign a waiver for to join the group today, we should have read it, but Ray and I were tasked with assisting everyone in digitally signing the document. By the time we finished the signatures it was time to leave, we headed to the dig house.

The dig house in Examilia is worse for wear, at least in the part that we worked in the afternoon. In the morning we got a crash course to photogrammetry. Basically, for multiple reasons, new age archaeology wants to have highly detailed three dimensional scans of some if not all artifacts. They can use them to print replicas, view the artifacts through multi-spectral lenses, and potentially set up a virtual environment museum tour with the models showcased. Very neat stuff, and very intuitive for me. The process is fascinating and feels very self explanatory from my point of view. A lot of picture taking, lighting correction, and file management systems; but it all makes sense to me. To be honest, I think I already see a couple of ways to optimize their set up, but I don't want to intrude or overstep, so I only recommended a small improvement.

After lunch we were tasked with a new shift, the "Amphora Project." When I heard we were working with pottery, I got very excited, thinking we would be assisting in the recreating of vases or identification of shards, but no, we were tasked with sorting and moving thousands of previously trashed shards of pottery. Vey dirty, very loud, very boring. I would not choose the shift again. I told Professor Pettegrew that, and it sounds like he wouldn't assign it to me again, so thanks :) 