Woke up super early because of an optional drone flight mission, we left at 7:00am. We were tasked with finishing the drone mapping flight path around the Howe house location. Specifically, I was meant to keep a line of slight on the drone the whole time... have to admit I didn't succeed at that. Thankfully Ray was vigilantly watching the drone. I scored some great morning pics of the skyline and a tasty orange.

We returned to eat breakfast and quickly turned around to head back to the dig house. Jon Frye, the one in charge of the dig site at Examilia. He provided an amazing tour of the site in Examilia. We saw the Temple of Poseidon, and were told all about the structure and column formations. We moved to the site of the ancient roman track, where they were race others in their age range. Apparently one 1st place is notable, so you would do everything you could to cheat in the race. Jon explained the evolution of starting lines, from simple wooden blocks falling to more mechanical designs. We moved on to the Roman Bath House and saw the largest floor mosaic I've ever seen. It was so impressive; I was very more in awe when Jon explained the structural support of the massive mosaic, specifically how well it held up after the ceiling collapsed on it. 

I spent the afternoon working on 'data management' which at first felt too vague. Felt a couple of questions, I realized the problem that I was assigned to solve. Basically, we are creating a large final project and need a place to store the media we want to use. I valued our options and decided to ask Nick Barnes to host a shared google album. Thankfully he was more than willing and we now have a fully cloud hosted location to store our media for the final project.

Also, we headed to Corinth after the dig house and got dinner, super cheap and very good. Found a very affordable thrift store in the city. I got two very nice dressy long sleeve shirts and a sick grey demin shirt. The ladies at the registered were very sweet and thanked us for our kindness and generosity. 