#Greece
Woke up intentional late today, I'm tired of the same breakfast every morning; plus I wasn't heading to the dig site today. I slept until 8:30, and it was so rewarding. I showed up to the upper patio around 9:00 to work on the final group project. 

I spoke with Niko briefly, and thanked him for serving me coffee and water even after I missed breakfast with the group. Nick, Meredith, and I spent a large part of the morning working on storymaps and research. I'm very happy with the way they are turning out. I created a collection and four separate storymaps titled: Birth, Life, Death, and Rebirth of Washingtonia. I also created a unifying color theme and specific font style for all storymaps. I am loving the site, it allows me to truly be creative and is flexible enough to allow me to make what I want. 

My laptops died earlier than I expected, so I texted Professor Pettegrew with my progress and he seemed very thrilled with my work. So I took a break for lunch. I went shopping very briefly and finally bought a journal and two rings. I am quite a fan of the jewelry I got, it's a little feminine but whatever.

Spent the afternoon wrapping up the basics of storymaps, aka finding a way that others can access and edit the storymaps. Trickier than expected, I defaulted to changing and then sharing my login information with those involved in the creating / designing process. 

After that shift, I filled up 8 water bottles at the fountain and got a shower because were heading to Nafplion! First, a stop Mycenaean. We stayed for about an hour, checking out cool tombs and domed spherical rooms. They made really impressive echoes.

We spent the night in the Nafplion, and it was amazing. So many great shops, and even better food. I got to know two great art shop owners. They were very pleasant and I ended up buying jewelry and art from them. I got three souvenirs for my family, two bronze owls for my brothers and a glass blown pomegranate. I love Nafplion. 