Repeat morning, I got to sleep in and basically skipped breakfast. Left for a drone flight near the Howe house. We flew relatively close to powerlines and Professor Sarvis exlpained that in the past powelines were problematic for drones. Something to due with the electro magnetic frequencies they put off, it interferes with the drones connection to the controller. 

Professor Kostis provided a cool lecture about thought process and historical context of structures. Essentially, we analyzed concrete pillars that were seemingly scattered around the drone mapping area. Kostis explained that the writing on them were Greek military, and that they were made of concrete. He challenged us to think like archaeologists and analyze the pillars. We described the shape and form of them to him. He tasked us with explaining the process of concrete creation, which to his surprise, we knew nothing about. He wanted us to think about what it means that these pillars were made of concrete; how a structures material composition implies the time period it was created in. 

Got lunch with the gang for a great price, we all nabbed some petit gyros for like 3 euro each, I love Gemelos. 

I spent the rest of the familiarizing myself with Storymaps. They are intense. They offer a lot customizability through a slew of different tools. By far my favorite option in storymaps are the guided map tours. Sadly, I have minimal reason to use this tool for the Washingtonia Storymap; this is what I worked on throughout the afternoon. To be honest, I did not get as far as I wished I would, mostly in part of a lack of content to move from the researched section to the Storymap section. However, I don't want to rush my co-workers who have been tasked with researching. Overall, a relatively easy day, with a bit of work done. 