#Greece
I feel bad for not attending breakfast every morning. Niko and the other workers from Pegasus hotels make a beautiful spread of food every morning, but I'm not a huge breakfast guy. I will need to start thanking them for breakfast more often. I did attend breakfast today, albeit a little late. 

Today was great. Honestly my favorite work oriented day thus far. I have been exhausted from the week's schedule so getting to hang in Ancient Corinth today was a blessing. I got lunch and dinner today and overall had a very rejuvenating day. 

I spent the entire day absolutely grinding on Storymaps. Not that I have anything more to do right now for the group project, but I have also been assigned a personal final project. It has to been either a video or a storymap. I love editing but I think I would enjoy creating a storymap even more. Luckily, I have been taking pics and videos ever chance I get, I knew I wanted to have an album or something to remember the trip by but I didn't realize I would need this media for a project.

I spent roughly an hour creating the perfect 3d map tour of our travel to Greece, with photos and descriptions of the transportation process. I realize now that I have set myself a very high bar of quality and quantity for my personal final project. So be it, I am loving the site and the creation process feels very intuitive for me. 

I have broken the assignment into 5 categories ranging from purely fun adventures to very practical technologies used. I want focus a lot of the culture categories, highlighting people I have interacted with and businesses I have shopped at. However, I don't want to rush that category because I want to be sensitive and unbiased and ethical about the picture I paint. I don't know if that makes sense but I want to be careful. 