#Greece
**A very eventful day, we visited Aegina island. I will summarize most of the experience to highlight my favorites. An early morning with an hour can ride to the dock, than a hour ferry ride to the island. I got a ton of very cool pictures of the boat the trip. 

  

Upon arriving to the island we immediately heading out of the port town and headed to the Holy Church of Saint Nectarios of Aegina Kontos. This monastery is huge, and currently under construction, but that didn't take away from the impressive nature of the building. Tons of beautiful flowers and a donkey, which was very surprising and like attention seeking. The actual building itself had actual remains of a holy man who has passed away; this is super foreign to me and the Christian faith I am familiar with but I kept an open mind. 

  

After we departed from the monastery, we headed to a restaurant that Niko highly highly recommended. We order way to much food, but the lamb and rooster were very tasty. I felt bad wasting all of the food we left but the owner seemed very pleased that such a big group ordered so much. From the restaurant we could see the next stop, the Temple of Aphaia. 

  

From a distant these ruins were incredibly impressive. Up close they are clearly the most in tact ruins I have seen yet. Dozens of columns and roofing stone are still in place. I am still in awe at the size and structural soundness of the temple. The nearby museum housed many replicas of statues and remaining details. 

  

We headed to the first sand beach of the trip next. I loved it. Practically zero sea urchins and very clear water. I did some slight rock "walking" basically climbing upright on these boulders and found some jumping spots. I only got slightly injured from the rocks. 

  

Ironically my favorite part of the trip was leaving the island. The ferry was so peaceful and super windy. I jammed out to music and edited photos the whole time. I really needed the introvert time. Tomorrow is a big day so I'm heading to bed early.**