Started the day by attending the Greek Orthodox Church service in Ancient Corinth. Very similar to the service I attended in New Corinth. Less formal but still structured and very foreign to what I am familiar with. Then our trip to Delphi! 

Very long van ride to Delphi but we found some stops to visit on the way. Our first stop was to Thebes, and honestly it was terrible. Not that I disliked the museum or the food but the city was too sketchy for me. A group of teenagers gathered in the same restaurant as our group and were looking our direction the entire way. It definitely freaked out some of the girls and all the guys in our group were preparing for the worst. Luckily, no problems! The food was okay, actually it was kind of bad, but I was so hungry I ate it all anyways. We toured a museum also, but since the food took so long to get we rushed through the museum to make it our of Thebes on time. 

After another long car ride we stopped at one of the oldest monasteries. It had an incredible view and also very old architecture. They had a casket with remains of a holy man. That was crazy and impressive. Very very different than my usual experience with faith. 

Arriving at Delphi was rough, we took about an hour to get checked in and our communication was a little rough. However, we got to do some brief hiking down the "ancient trail" Very beautiful view of the valley, but a lot of spiders which I am not the biggest fan of. 

Dinner was amazing, Professor Sarvis and Professor Pettegrew ordered a lot of food for us. We got weird butters and tzatziki  with bread, grape leaves and eggplant neither of which I liked. 

After dinner we shopping and met this amazing shop owner couple. We literally spent an hour in their store getting to know them and learning about the history of the city. We all bought something from the store and they gave us amazing discounts. I really enjoyed getting to know them and the passion they had for Delphi.