Today was great! Niko and his team provided the same breakfast but it was great! Nick lended me his razor, it was definitely needed. The team and I worked very diligently on the group final project story map about Washingtonia. We had to essentially revamp all the progress we had made because Professor Pettegrew preferred the layout and flow of a previous project. Honestly, I am pretty happy with the rework. The beginning our of presentation flows much nicer now with an interactive map for every information topic. Sadly, I didn't get as much work as I wanted done but its okay. 

Lunch was easy, petit gyros from the place next to Gemelos, I also nabbed a coffee from the corner café. 7 euro in total, how is it so cheap. I love the prices in Greece.

I got back to work briefly before someone suggested gelato and after that work was an afterthought. I took my first genuine break from work and it was a blessing. I don't mean a nap or hanging out with friends, I mean an actual restful introvert time. So good. 

Nikos took the whole Messiah and Harrisburg group, plus the archaeologists to a restaurant for dinner. It was so different than other restaurants we have been too, they clearly don't get tourists very often. I know I've said that other places have brought out too much food in the past, but this place brought out way too much. I'm talking like three huge platters of fries, three huge platters of salad, so much cheese, and an absurd amount of meats. Professor Pettegrew also officially allowed us to have a single glass of wine...thanks for that. 

I got to call my parents tonight which was great, I haven't stayed in touch as much as I wish I had so getting to talk to them was great! 