Busy day in Ancient Corinth today, skipped breakfast but grabbed a coffee from the corner bakery. The group and I met around 9:15 am on the Pegasus Hotel balcony. We set up the huge umbrella and made the perfect work environment. Despite the prep work, I we only got about 80 percent of the work completed that I wanted to accomplish. 

Around noon we made a plan to get lunch. We are all getting pretty comfortable with the environment; we decided to split up and get lunch for each other. A couple of us grabbed petit gyros from the Groom's Taverna. Others went to the far market and grabbed some drinks and get got a huge watermelon to share. I went to the bakery and grabbed brownies for dessert and a coffee for myself. Lunch was short lived but amazing, also cheap, shocking right?

Nick and I had a great conversation about values and time on the trip. We debated continuing to work until we left for afternoon plans or to rest up and try to enjoy the town more. I decided he had a good point and took a nap after a bit of work. I still have a lot to do on my personal story map.

We returned to Nafplio! I love it there but sadly I bought much less than I planned. Dinner was great! A group of us shared pizzas at a local pizza place. Afterwards many of the boys went for a hike and I went shopping. The shopping group found a very vibey tea and coffee shop and I bought some Greek Mountain tea for my father. I checked out an olive wood store multiple times, trying to convince myself to buy a beautiful wooden watch. I didn't. We did get gelato, and to no one's surprise, it was amazing. 