Wow, what a day. Left for Athens today, departed from Ancient Corinth around 8:30; aka early breakfast. I packed up pretty neatly but not as well as I should have. We headed straight for the airport, I guess airports allow you to store some luggage for up to 48 hours. I’ve never heard of this but a lot of other travelers were in line there to store their luggage. So now I’m down to a single backpack with way too many wires and tech, also three outfits. 

Luckily I packed a draw string bag, because I needed it! We started our "tour" of Athens around 11:30am. Most notably was the Acropolis, which obviously was stunning, but it was slightly underwhelming. It is currently under construction or maybe more likely is that it is being restored. I specifically thought the women colonnades were cool, they broke up the monotony of the classic column design. 

Before the Acropolis, we got to tour what Professor Pettegrew called the "public center of ancient Athens", the Ancient Agora of Athens. It was beautiful, and provided a safe space for a lot of wildlife in Athens. We saw around 15 tortoise and a lot of exotic looking birds. Kelsey and I toured the pottery museum and checked out the second floor of the restored Stoa of Attalos. The group and I had plenty of ethical / moral  conversations about the ethics of restoring an ancient structure. 

Lunch was incredible, I've enjoyed the petit gyros throughout Greece, but a specific restaurant in Athens makes the bread really fluffy and covers it in paprika. So. Good. Dinner was on a different level. The HU van went to a High Class italian restaurant, and we were super underdressed. They literally asked us to remove our water bottles from the table because they didn't match the aesthetic. Incredible food though.   