#NetworkSecurity [[1. Introduction]]
# Quiz 1.1
1. A user copies files from her desktop computer to a USB flash device and puts the device into her pocket. Which of the following security risks is most pressing?
	1. Confidentiality
2. Which of the following BEST describes a cyber terrorist?
	1. Disrupts network-dependent institutions
3. Your computer system is a participant in an asymmetric cryptography system. You've created a message to send to another user. Before transmission, you hash the message and encrypt the hash using your private key. You then attach this encrypted hash to your message as a digital signature before sending it to the other user. In this example, which protection does the hashing activity provide?
	1. Integrity
4. Which of the following is an example of an internal threat?
	1. A user accidentally deletes the new product designs.
5. Which of the following could an employee also be known as?
	1. Internal threat
6. By definition, which security concept uses the ability to prove that a sender undeniably sent an encrypted message?
	1. Non-repudiation
7. Which of the following includes all hardware and software necessary to secure data, such as firewalls and antivirus software?
	1. Physical security
8. Which of the following are often identified as the three main goals of security? (Select three.)
	1. Confidentially
	2. Integrity
	3. Availability
9. Which of the following is the correct definition of a threat?
	1. Any potential danger to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or systems
10. Which of the following is an example of a vulnerability?
	1. Misconfigured server



# Quiz 1.2
1. The Application layer of the security model includes which of the following? (Select two.)
	1. Web Application Security
	2. User Management
2. When training your employees on how to identify various attacks, which of the following policies should you be sure to have and enforce? (Select two.)
	1. Password policies
	2. Clean desk policies
3. Which of the following reduces the risk of a threat agent being able to exploit a vulnerability?
	1. Countermeasures
4. Which of the following items would be implemented at the Data layer of the security model?
	1. Cryptography
5. Which of the following items would you secure in the Perimeter layer of the security model?
	1. Firewalls
6. Which of the following is the single greatest threat to network security?
	1. Employees
7. Which of the following is a security approach that combines multiple security controls and defenses?
	1. Layered security
8. Which of the following items would be implemented at the Network layer of the security model?
	1. Penetration testing
9. Which of the following is one of the MOST common attacks on employees?
	1. Phishing attack
10. The Policies, Procedures, and Awareness layer of the security model includes which of the following? (Select two.)
	1. Employee onboarding
	2. User Education