#NetworkSecurity
# The Seven Layers of Security
Layered security has seven layers. The following table describes each layer.
1. Policies, procedures, and awareness
	1. User education; manageable network plans; and employee onboarding and off-boarding procedures.
2. Physical
	1. Fences, door locks, mantraps, turnstiles, device locks, server cages, cameras, motion detectors, and environmental controls.
3. Perimeter
	1. Firewalls using ACLs and securing the wireless network.
4. Network
	1. The installation and configuration of switches and routers; implementation of VLANs; penetration testing; and virtualization use.
5. Host
	1. Log management, OS hardening, patch implementation, patch management, auditing, anti-malware, and password attack prevention on each workstation, laptop, and mobile device.
6. Application
	1. Authentication and authorization, user management, group policies, and web application security.
7. Data
	1. Storing data properly, destroying data, classifying data, cryptography, and data transmission security.
It is important to know that each layer does not require its own security appliance or software. Layered security is not about specific mechanisms, but the method of protecting a network by employing various techniques at one time.

# User Education
Employees are the single greatest threat to network security. Therefore, user education is very important. Look for ways to take the following actions:

-   Make employees aware that they are the primary targets in most attacks.
-   Ensure employees understand that phishing attacks are one of the most common attacks directed at employees.
-   Train employees to identify email, instant messaging, download, and website attacks.
-   Enforce effective password policies, including a policy that prohibits writing down passwords.
-   Train employees to identify both internal and external threats.
-   Ensure that employees are aware of the company's security policies.

# Countermeasures
A countermeasure is a way to mitigate a potential risk. Countermeasures reduce the risk of a threat agent exploiting a vulnerability. An appropriate countermeasure:

-   Provides a security solution to an identified problem.
-   Is not dependent on secrecy.
-   Is testable and verifiable.
-   Provides uniform or consistent protection for all assets and users.
-   Is independent of other safeguards.
-   Requires minimal human intervention.
-   Is tamper-proof.
-   Has overrides and fail-safe defaults.