#MBA #BusinessStrategyExecution 
-- page 38-48 --
## 1. Competitive Force of Buyer Bargaining Power

Whether seller-buyer relationships represent a minor or significant competitive force depends on (1) whether some or many buyers have sufficient bargaining leverage to obtain price concessions and other favorable terms, and (2) the extent to which buyers are price sensitive. Buyers with strong bargaining power can limit industry profitability by demanding price concessions, better payment terms, or additional features and services that increase industry members’ costs. Buyer price sensitivity limits the profit potential of industry members by restricting the ability of sellers to raise prices without losing volume or unit sales. Page 39 The leverage that buyers have in negotiating favorable terms of the sale can range from weak to strong. Individual consumers, for example, rarely have much bargaining power in negotiating price concessions or other favorable terms with sellers. The primary exceptions involve situations in which price haggling is customary, such as the purchase of new and used motor vehicles, homes, and other big-ticket items such as jewelry and pleasure boats. For most consumer goods and services, individual buyers have no bargaining leverage—their option is to pay the seller’s posted price, delay their purchase until prices and terms improve, or take their business elsewhere. In contrast, large retail chains such as Walmart, Best Buy, Staples, and Lowe’s typically have considerable negotiating leverage in purchasing products from manufacturers because retailers usually stock just two or three competing brands of a product and rarely carry all competing brands. In addition, the strong bargaining power of major supermarket chains such as Kroger, Publix, and Albertsons allows them to demand promotional allowances and lump-sum payments (called slotting fees) from food products manufacturers in return for stocking certain brands or putting them in the best shelf locations. Motor vehicle manufacturers have strong bargaining power in negotiating to buy original equipment tires from Goodyear, Michelin, Bridgestone, Continental, and Pirelli not only because they buy in large quantities but also because tire makers have judged original equipment tires to be important contributors to brand awareness and brand loyalty. Page 40 Even if buyers do not purchase in large quantities or offer a seller important market exposure or prestige, they gain a degree of bargaining leverage in the following circumstances: If buyers’ costs of switching to competing brands or substitutes are relatively low. When the products of rival sellers are virtually identical, it is relatively easy for buyers to switch from seller to seller at little or no cost. The potential for buyers to easily switch from one seller to another encourages sellers to make concessions to win or retain a buyer’s business. If the number of buyers is small or if a customer is particularly important to a seller. The smaller the number of buyers, the less easy it is for sellers to find alternative buyers when a customer is lost to a competitor. The prospect of losing a customer who is not easily replaced often makes a seller more willing to grant concessions of one kind or another. If buyer demand is weak. Weak or declining demand creates a “buyers’ market”; conversely, strong or rapidly growing demand creates a “sellers’ market” and shifts bargaining power to sellers. If buyers are well informed about sellers’ products, prices, and costs. The more information buyers have, the better bargaining position they are in. The mushrooming availability of product information on the Internet (and is readily available on smartphones) has given added bargaining power to consumers. If buyers pose a credible threat of integrating backward into the business of sellers. Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV has integrated backward into metal can manufacturing to gain bargaining power in obtaining the balance of its can requirements from otherwise powerful metal can manufacturers
## 2. Competitive Force of Substitute Products
Companies in one industry are vulnerable to competitive pressure from the actions of companies in another industry whenever buyers view the products of the two industries as good substitutes. For instance, the producers of sugar experience competitive pressures from the sales and marketing efforts of the makers of Splenda, Truvia, and Sweet’N Low. Similarly, cable television networks and providers are finding it more difficult to maintain their relevance to subscribers who find greater value in streaming devices and services. 

Just how strong the competitive pressures are from the sellers of substitute products depends on three factors: 

Whether substitutes are readily available and attractively priced. The presence of readily available and attractively priced substitutes creates competitive pressure by placing a ceiling on the prices industry members can charge. When substitutes are cheaper than an industry’s product, industry members come under heavy competitive pressure to reduce their prices and find ways to absorb the price cuts with cost reductions. Page 41 

Whether buyers view the substitutes as comparable or better in terms of quality, performance, and other relevant attributes. Customers are prone to compare performance and other attributes as well as price. For example, consumers have found smartphones to be a superior substitute to digital cameras because of constant availability of smartphones and superior ease of use in managing images. 

Whether the costs that buyers incur in switching to the substitutes are high or low. High switching costs deter switching to substitutes, whereas low switching costs make it easier for the sellers of attractive substitutes to lure buyers to their products. Typical switching costs include the inconvenience of switching to a substitute, the costs of additional equipment, the psychological costs of severing old supplier relationships, and employee retraining costs. Figure 3.4 summarizes the conditions that determine whether the competitive pressures from substitute products are strong, moderate, or weak. As a rule, the lower the price of substitutes, the higher their quality and performance, and the lower the user’s switching costs, the more intense the competitive pressures posed by substitute products.

## 3. Competitive Force of Supplier Bargaining Power
Whether the suppliers of industry members represent a weak or strong competitive force depends on the degree to which suppliers have sufficient bargaining power to influence the terms and conditions of supply in their favor. Suppliers with strong bargaining power can erode industry profitability by charging industry members higher prices, passing costs on to them, and limiting their opportunities to find better deals. For instance, Microsoft and Intel, both of which supply PC makers with essential components, have been known to use their dominant market status not only to charge PC makers premium prices but also to leverage PC makers in other ways. The bargaining power possessed by Microsoft and Intel when negotiating with customers is so great that both companies have faced antitrust charges on numerous occasions. Before a legal agreement ending the practice, Microsoft pressured PC makers to load only Microsoft products on the PCs they shipped. Intel has also defended against antitrust charges resulting from its bargaining strength but continues to give PC makers that use the biggest percentages of Intel chips in their PC models top priority in filling orders for newly introduced Intel chips. Being on Intel’s list of preferred customers helps a PC maker get an early allocation of Intel’s latest chips and thus allows a PC maker to get new models to market ahead of rivals. Page 42 The factors that determine whether any of the industry suppliers are in a position to exert substantial bargaining power or leverage are fairly clear-cut: If the item being supplied is a commodity that is readily available from many suppliers. Suppliers have little or no bargaining power or leverage whenever industry members have the ability to source from any of several alternative and eager suppliers. Page 43 The ability of industry members to switch their purchases from one supplier to another or to switch to attractive substitutes. High switching costs increase supplier bargaining power, whereas low switching costs and the ready availability of good substitute inputs weaken supplier bargaining power. If certain inputs are in short supply. Suppliers of items in short supply have some degree of pricing power. If certain suppliers provide a differentiated input that enhances the performance, quality, or image of the industry’s product. The greater the ability of a particular input to enhance a product’s performance, quality, or image, the more bargaining leverage its suppliers are likely to possess. Whether certain suppliers provide equipment or services that deliver cost savings to industry members in conducting their operations. Suppliers who provide cost-saving equipment or services are likely to possess some degree of bargaining leverage. The fraction of the costs of the industry’s product accounted for by the cost of a particular input. The bigger the cost of a specific part or component, the more opportunity for competition in the marketplace to be affected by the actions of suppliers to raise or lower their prices. If industry members are major customers of suppliers. As a rule, suppliers have less bargaining leverage when their sales to members of this one industry constitute a big percentage of their total sales. In such cases, the well-being of suppliers is closely tied to the well-being of their major customers. Whether it makes good economic sense for industry members to vertically integrate backward. The make-or-buy decision generally boils down to whether suppliers are able to supply a particular component at a lower cost than industry members could achieve if they were to integrate backward.

## 4. Competitive Force of Potential New Entrants
New entrants into an industry place additional competitive pressure on existing firms since they are likely to compete fiercely to establish market share and will add to the industry’s production capacity. But even the threat of new entry can be an important competitive force. This is because credible threat of entry often prompts industry members to lower their prices and initiate defensive actions in an attempt to deter new entrants. Just how serious the threat of entry is in a particular market depends on two classes of factors: (1) the expected reaction of incumbent firms to new entry and (2) barriers to entry. The threat of entry is low in industries where incumbent firms are likely to retaliate against new entrants with sharp price discounting and other moves designed to make entry unprofitable. The threat of entry is also low when entry barriers are high. The most widely encountered barriers that entry candidates must hurdle include:3 The presence of sizable economies of scale in production or other areas of operation. When incumbent companies enjoy cost advantages associated with large-scale operations, outsiders must either enter on a large scale (a costly and perhaps risky move) or accept a cost disadvantage and consequently lower profitability. Page 44 Cost and resource disadvantages not related to scale of operation. Aside from enjoying economies of scale, industry incumbents can have cost advantages that stem from the possession of proprietary technology, partnerships with the best and cheapest suppliers, low fixed costs (because they have older facilities that have been mostly depreciated), and experience/learning-curve effects. Manufacturing unit costs for microprocessors tend to decline about 20 percent each time cumulative production volume doubles. With a 20 percent experience-curve effect, if the first 1 million chips cost $100 each, once production volume reaches 2 million, the unit cost would fall to $80 (80 percent of $100), and by a production volume of 4 million, the unit cost would be $64 (80 percent of $80).4 The bigger the learning- or experience-curve effect, the bigger the cost advantage of the company with the largest cumulative production volume. Strong brand preferences and high degrees of customer loyalty. The stronger the attachment of buyers to established brands, the harder it is for a newcomer to break into the marketplace. High capital requirements. The larger the total dollar investment needed to enter the market successfully, the more limited the pool of potential entrants. The most obvious capital requirements for new entrants relate to manufacturing facilities and equipment, introductory advertising and sales promotion campaigns, working capital to finance inventories and customer credit, and sufficient cash to cover start-up costs. Page 45 The difficulties of building a network of distributors-retailers and securing adequate space on retailers’ shelves. A potential entrant can face numerous distribution channel challenges. Wholesale distributors may be reluctant to take on a product that lacks buyer recognition. Retailers have to be recruited and convinced to give a new brand ample display space and an adequate trial period. Potential entrants sometimes have to “buy” their way into wholesale or retail channels by cutting their prices to provide dealers and distributors with higher markups and profit margins or by giving them big advertising and promotional allowances. Patents and other forms of intellectual property protection. In a number of industries, entry is prevented due to the existence of intellectual property protection laws that remain in place for a given number of years. Often, companies have a “wall of patents” in place to prevent other companies from entering with a “me too” strategy that replicates a key piece of technology. Strong “network effects” in customer demand. In industries where buyers are more attracted to a product when there are many other users of the product, there are said to be “network effects.” Video game systems are an example, since many users prefer multiplayer games and sharing games. When incumbents have a large existing base of users, new entrants with otherwise comparable products face a serious disadvantage in attracting buyers. Restrictive regulatory policies. Government agencies can limit or even bar entry by requiring licenses and permits. Regulated industries such as cable TV, telecommunications, electric and gas utilities, and radio and television broadcasting entail government-controlled entry. Tariffs and international trade restrictions. National governments commonly use tariffs and trade restrictions (antidumping rules, local content requirements, local ownership requirements, quotas, etc.) to raise entry barriers for foreign firms and protect domestic producers from outside competition. The ability and willingness of industry incumbents to launch vigorous initiatives to block a newcomer’s successful entry. Even if a potential entrant has or can acquire the needed competencies and resources to attempt entry, it must still worry about the reaction of existing firms.5 Sometimes, there’s little that incumbents can do to throw obstacles in an entrant’s path. But there are times when incumbents use price cuts, increase advertising, introduce product improvements, and launch legal attacks to prevent the entrant from building a clientele. Taxicab companies across the world are aggressively lobbying local governments to impose regulations that would bar ride-sharing services such as Uber or Lyft.

## 5. Competitive Force of Rivalry among Competition Sellers
The Competitive Force of Rivalry among Competing Sellers The strongest of the five competitive forces is nearly always the rivalry among competing sellers of a product or service. In effect, a market is a competitive battlefield where there’s no end to the campaign for buyer patronage. Rival sellers are prone to employ whatever weapons they have in their business arsenal to improve their market positions, strengthen their market position with buyers, and earn good profits. The strategy formulation challenge is to craft a competitive strategy that, at the very least, allows a company to hold its own against rivals and that, ideally, produces a competitive edge over rivals. But competitive contests are ongoing and dynamic. When one firm makes a strategic move that produces good results, its rivals typically respond with offensive or defensive countermoves of their own. This pattern of action and reaction produces a continually evolving competitive landscape in which the market battle ebbs and flows and produces winners and losers. But the current market leaders have no guarantees of continued leadership. In every industry, the ongoing jockeying of rivals leads to one or more companies gaining or losing momentum in the marketplace according to whether their latest strategic maneuvers succeed or fail