#NetworkSecurity
# 13.1
1. Your company is preparing to enter into a partner relationship with another organization. It will be necessary for the information systems used by each organization to connect and integrate with each other. Which of the following is of primary importance as you take steps to enter into this partner relationship?
	1. Ensure that the integration process maintains the security of each organization's network
2. Your organization entered into an interoperability agreement (IA) with another organization a year ago. As a part of this agreement, a federated trust was established between your domain and the partner domain. The partnership has been in the ongoing operations phase for almost nine months now. As a security administrator, which tasks should you complete during this phase? (Select two.)
	1. Conduct periodic vulnerability assessments
	2. Verify compliance with the IA documents
3. When you inform an employee that he or she is being terminated, which of the following is the most important activity?
	1. Disable his or her network access
4. Which of the following is defined as a contract that prescribes the technical support or business parameters a provider bestows to its client?
	1. Service level agreement
5. What is a service level agreement (SLA)?
	1. A guarantee of a specific level of service.
6. Match each interoperability agreement document on the left with the appropriate description on the right. Each document may be used once, more than once, or not at all.
	1. Specifies exactly which services are to be performed by the third party
		1. SLA
	2. Creates an agreement with a vendor to provide services on an ongoing basis
		1. BPO
	3. Summarizes which party is responsible for performing specific tasks
		1. MOU
	4. Documents how data is to be shared
		1. ISA
	5. Defines how disputes are managed
		1. SLA
	6. Specifies a preset discounted pricing structure
		1. BPO
7. In a high-security environment, which of the following is the most important concern when removable media is no longer needed?
	1. Destruction
8. How often should change-control management be implemented?
	1. Any time a production system is altered.
9. Which of the following is the primary purpose of change control?
	1. Prevent unmanaged change
10. Change control should be used to oversee and manage changes over which aspect of an organization?
	1. Every aspect

# 13.2
1. Your company has developed and implemented countermeasures for the greatest risks to their assets. However, there is still some risk left. What is the remaining risk called?
	1. Residual risk
2. You have conducted a risk analysis to protect a key company asset. You identify the following values:-   Asset value = 400-   Exposure factor = 75-   Annualized rate of occurrence = .25 What is the annualized loss expectancy (ALE)?
	1. 75
3. What is the average number of times that a specific risk is likely to be realized in a single year?
	1. Annualized rate of occurrence
4. When analyzing assets, which analysis method assigns financial values to assets?
	1. Quantitative
5. Which of the following best defines single loss expectancy (SLE)?
	1. The total monetary loss associated with a single occurrence of a threat.
6. A file server with data is consider which of the following asset types?
	1. Both tangible and intangible
7. What is the primary goal of business continuity planning?
	1. Maintain business operations with reduced or restricted infrastructure capabilities or resources
8. A broken water pipe that floods the reception area would be considered which type of threat?
	1. Natural
9. When should a hardware device be replaced in order to minimize downtime?
	1. Just before its MTBF is reached
10. Which of the following terms describes the actual time required to successfully recover operations in the event of an incident?
	1. Recovery time objective (RTO)

# 13.3
1. You have been receiving a lot of phishing emails sent from the domain kenyan.msn.pl. Links within these emails open new browser windows at youneedit.com.pl. You want to make sure that these emails never reach your inbox, but you also want to make sure that emails from other senders are not affected. What should you do?
	1. Add **kenyan.msn.pl** to the email blacklist.
2. You install a new Linux distribution on a server in your network. The distribution includes a Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) daemon that is enabled by default when the system boots. The SMTP daemon does not require authentication to send email messages. Which type of email attack is this server susceptible to?
	1. Open SMTP relay
3. Which of the following BEST describes an email security gateway?
	1. It monitors emails that originate from an organization.
4. Users in your organization receive email messages informing them that suspicious activity has been detected on their bank accounts. They are directed to click a link in the email to verify their online banking username and password. The URL in the link is in the .ru top-level DNS domain. Which kind of attack has occurred?
	1. Phishing
5. Which of the following BEST describes phishing?
	1. A fraudulent email that claims to be from a trusted organization.
6. Which of the following would you do to help protect against phishing?
	1. Only open emails if you recognize the sender.
7. Which of the following mechanisms can you use to add encryption to email? (Select two.)
	1. S/MIME
	2. PGP
8. If an SMTP server is not properly and securely configured, it can be hijacked and used maliciously as an SMTP relay agent. Which activity could result if this happens?
	1. Spamming
9. Which type of malicious activity can be described as numerous unwanted and unsolicited email messages sent to a wide range of victims?
	1. Spamming
10. An attacker sends an unwanted and unsolicited email message to multiple recipients with an attachment that contains malware. Which kind of attack has occurred in this scenario?
	1. Spam
