#### Data-Driven Management of Blue Detergent
Kelsey-White (K-W), an American multinational consumer goods company, manufactured and sold a variety of consumer packaged goods (CPG) around the world—generally through brick-and-mortar retailers. In the United States, laundry detergent was a key product for K-W in the form of Blue, its primary brand. Blue came in several formulations—liquid, powder, and single-use pods (see Exhibit 1)— and had been a staple of the laundry marketplace for several decades. Pod sales had been slow compared to other competitors, and long-term Blue customers sometimes even felt that liquid was too modern for their tastes. As the average age of its customers rose, Blue’s market share drifted downwards over the past several years. The product was still a profitable one for K-W, however (see Exhibit 2), as the market as a whole had enjoyed steady growth. 

K-W had historically been a relatively conservative company in which most marketing and manufacturing decisions were made on the basis of experience and gut feel about the market. However, four years ago the company appointed a relatively new CEO, Sheila James, who had a strong belief in quantitative and data-based decision-making. One of her first acts as CEO was to initiate the development of K-W Vision, a system for displaying key information about market, financial, and operational performance. James’s goal was that K-W managers would use Vision to make strategic and operational decisions in many areas of the business. She had come from another company in the consumer products industry, and she argued that K-W was behind other firms in its use of data and analytics for decisions. Vision had just become available to the Blue product team. 

In order to build K-W Vision, the company needed to compile several years of historical data. Most of it came directly from retailers, from syndicated providers of retail data about CPG firms, or from internal K-W systems. Much of the data had been used within K-W in the past, but it was fragmented and stayed within a variety of business silos. In addition, some parts of the organization were much more likely to use such data than others. 

With strong support from Sheila James, the IT organization at K-W had put substantial energy and time into integrating the information, ensuring that it was consistent across the organization, and creatingthe Vision user interface. The goal of these efforts was to allow K-W managers to make key decisions about marketing and production based on analysis of “what works” as evidenced by data. The system also included data on key competitive brands, which was generally sourced from annual reports and syndicated industry data. The most recent version also employed some sophisticated Monte Carlo simulation analyses to understand the likelihood of different forecasting scenarios.

James was also attempting to change the culture of K-W in a more analytical direction. Her idea was that every manager within the company should become a data-driven executive, making key decisions on the basis of data and analytics whenever possible. She also believed that analytics and K-W Vision would be essential in pulling off the turnaround necessary for Blue and other key brands. She has made clear that decisions need to be described simply and clearly, and justified with reference to the data and analyses used to make them, and regularly posed questions involving data about brand and business unit performance at management meetings. She had also suggested that managers who adopted this datadriven approach would be the most likely to succeed and be promoted at K-W in the future. In fact, James had accelerated this process by bringing in several new managers from outside the company who already had the desired analytical orientation.

In keeping with this analytical focus, Blue and other K-W brand teams had already seen their key resources tied to gains (or losses) in market share and profitability. James and other senior managers had made clear that brands that did well would receive more money for marketing and for increased production, and those that did not would be slowly starved of resources.