#ResLife
My strengths from Clifton Strengths Finder are Restorative, Strategic, Positivity, Focus, and Responsibility.  I have primarily utilized these strengths when pouring into my team, but also when crafting a hospitable living-learning environment for my residents. 

I have used my strengths of Restoration and Strategic to control, mediate, and bring reconciliation to a situation involving bullying on my floor. The restoration strength refers to the passion for solving problems. When this situation was brought to my attention by the victim of harassment, I was motivated to quickly act and find restoration. However, before acting rashly, I took some time to make use of my strategic strength, which refers to the desire to sort through the clutter and find the best route. The resident and I ran through his desirable outcomes and mine. We discussed approaching the RD and all possible solutions. Ultimately a meeting was planned, and I offered to mediate. I vouched for the well-being of all of my residents during the mediation and after everyone shared their perspectives, apologies were given, many hugs and tears were shared, and a strong reconciliation was reached. 

If given the chance, next year I believe I would approach conflict within a team slightly differently. I found myself in a supportive role multiple times through conflict within my team, and I believe approaching this supportive role while focusing on my positivity strength could be beneficial. I believe bringing a stronger sense of optimism by lightening spirits would produce quicker reconciliation and encourage less drama.