I have experienced two Res Life teams, each being made up of people with different experiences, expectations, and backgrounds. My approach has been to not avoid the fact that these differences exists, but to embrace them through conversation, acknowledgement of differences, and to hold optional events for the team.

After watching "The Hate You Give" in RA training, I recall recognizing that my experiences led me to having a shallower reaction than some other members of my team. My experience with police brutality is close to none while others have a different experience, my approach was to talk to them about our different experiences. We talked about the effects they had seen with police brutality and how it impacts them. This conversation benefited everyone involved, and because of the conversation I grew closer with those I spoke to about our differences.

If I were rehired or hired as an SRA, I would take this experience as a guide to motivate myself to seek out these conversations. My team and I benefited greatly from discussing the strengths that our differences bring to the team. With or without the SRA role, I would seek to bring these conversations up, intending to promote a stronger sense of unity through the team, and higher Residence Life. I do believe the SRA holds more ability, and potentially responsibility to seek unity through conversations of differences. If hired to work in Res Life I would focus on providing the opportunity for more unifying conversations.