#NetworkSecurity
# 8.1
1. Which of the following is used on a wireless network to identify the network name?
	1. SSID
2. Which of the following is generated after a site survey and shows the Wi-Fi signal strength throughout the building?
	1. Heat map
3. You need to implement a wireless network link between two buildings on a college campus. A wired network has already been implemented within each building. The buildings are 100 meters apart. Which type of wireless antenna should you use on each side of the link? (Select two.)
	1. Parabolic
	2. High-gain
4. The IT manager has tasked you with installing the new wireless LAN controller (WLC). Where should you install the controller?
	1. Network closet
5. Which type of wireless access point is generally used in a residential setting?
	1. SOHO
6. You need to implement a solution to manage multiple access points in your organization. Which of the following would you most likely use?
	1. WLC
7. Which of the following devices would you use to perform a site survey?
	1. Wi-Fi analyzer
8. Which of the following types of site surveys should be performed first?
	1. Passive
9. Which of the following is responsible for broadcasting information and data over radio waves?
	1. Wireless access point
10. Which class of wireless access point (WAP) has everything necessary to manage clients and broadcast a network already built into its functionality?
	1. Fat

# 8.2
1. Which of the following sends unsolicited business cards and messages to a Bluetooth device?
	1. Bluejacking
2. Which of the following best describes Bluesnarfing?
	1. Viewing calendar, emails, and messages on a mobile device without authorization
3. Which type of interference is caused by motors, heavy machinery, and fluorescent lights?
	1. EMI
4. Which of the following best describes an evil twin?
	1. An access point that is configured to mimic a valid access point to obtain logon credentials and other sensitive information.
5. Which type of attack is WEP extremely vulnerable to?
	1. IV attack
6. You are the security analyst for your organization. Clients are complaining about being unable to connect to the wireless network. After looking into the issue, you have noticed short bursts of high-intensity RF signals are interfering with your wireless network's signal. Which type of attack are you most likely experiencing?
	1. Jamming
7. An attacker has intercepted near-field communication (NFC) data and is using that information to masquerade as the original device. Which type of attack is being executed?
	1. Relay
8. Which type of RFID tag can send a signal over a long distance?
	1. Active
9. Your company security policy states that wireless networks are not to be used because of the potential security risk they present to your network. One day, you find that an employee has connected a wireless access point to the network in his office. Which type of security risk is this?
	1. Rogue access point
10. You are concerned that wireless access points may have been deployed within your organization without authorization. What should you do? (Select two. Each response is a complete solution.)
	1. Check the MAC addresses of devices connected to your wired switch.
	2. Conduct a site survey

# 8.3
1. You want to connect a laptop computer running Windows to a wireless network. The wireless network uses multiple access points and WPA2-Personal. You want to use the strongest authentication and encryption possible. SSID broadcast has been disabled. What should you do?
	1. Configure the connection with a pre-shared key and AES encryption.
2. You need to add security for your wireless network, and you would like to use the most secure method. Which method should you implement?
	1. WPA2
3. You have physically added a wireless access point to your network and installed a wireless networking card in two laptops that run Windows. Neither laptop can find the network. You have come to the conclusion that you must manually configure the access point (AP). Which of the following values uniquely identifies the network AP?
	1. SSID
4. The owner of a hotel has contracted with you to implement a wireless network to provide internet access for guests. The owner has asked that you implement security controls so that only paying guests are allowed to use the wireless network. She wants guests to be presented with a login page when they initially connect to the wireless network. After entering a code provided by the concierge at check-in, guests should then be allowed full access to the internet. If a user does not provide the correct code, he or she should not be allowed to access the internet. What should you do?
	1. Implement a captive portal
5. Which EAP implementation is MOST secure?
	1. EAP-TLS
6. Which of the following do switches and wireless access points use to control access through a device?
	1. MAC address filtering
7. You want to implement 802.1x authentication on your wireless network. Where would you configure passwords that are used for authentication?
	1. On a RADIUS server
8. You are replacing a wired business network with an 802.11g wireless network. You currently use Active Directory on the company network as your directory service. The new wireless network has multiple wireless access points, and you want to use WPA2 on the network. What should you do to configure the wireless network? (Select two.)
	1. Install a RADIUS server and use 802.1x authentication
	2. Configure devices to run in infrastructure mode
9. You've just finished installing a wireless access point for a client. What should you do to prevent unauthorized users from using the access point (AP) configuration utility?
	1. Change the administrative password on the AP.
10. You need to configure a wireless network using WPA2-Enterprise. Which of the following components should be part of your design? (Select two.)
	1. AES encryption
	2. 802.1x