Our first full day in Greece. Woke up in the triple room with Ray and Michael, luckily my experience with the blistering cool shower yesterday prepared me for today's. (Ray taught me how to turn the heat on) On the topic of wash room use, definitely still getting accustomed to the "can't flush toilet paper" concept. Although there are no signs indicating this rule, my roommates and I would prefer not to clog Ancient Corinth's sewar system. 

At 8:00am, we were still in bed, and the rest of the students were enjoying the nicest breakfast on the roof of Pegasus Hotel. We joined them around 8:15. The food here is wonderful, I'm not sure how to describe it; it's more oily than what I expected but remarkable more filling. Hard boiled eggs, fresh apples, pears, and kumquat, fresh bread, honey, and made the best black coffee I've ever had. 

At 9:00am we packed up and drove to the parking lot of Acrocorinth. We stayed until roughly 1:00pm, exploring the site. Most notably, we visited the Temple of Aphrodite, a beautiful albeit smaller than I expected, structure the the second to tallest peak of Acrocorinth. I took so many pictures, panoramas, 360 degree shots, and videos. To give some perspective on how high up we were, you could see the tops of in flight helicopters. We could see Corinth's Isthmus from the temple, and Dr. Pettegrew give some information of the geography of the location. He potted out many peaks and locations we will be visiting in the coming weeks. After splitting up, a group of students and I visited "The Fortress", a larger structure that the peak of the site. Sadly, it was pretty closed off to tourists. Aside from thinking we lost a student part way through the visit, our time in Acrocorinth is highly memorable and very eye opening.

We got lunch at Taverna Gemelos, the same place as dinner last night. Incredible food. The food culture here is fascinating, specifically the "group meals" So far, we haven't seen the bill for our group meals but I assume it's expensive. I'm talking real multi-course meals, and honestly too much food. The Tzatziki is something I'm still coming around on, I've never had it before today; now I've had it twice in 24 hours. I am loving Greek food, but I have to admit that it's quite a different diet than what I am used to. Way more orange juice and bread, so much bread for every meal. Still not a fan of olives, but I'm determined to give them a fair chance. I am mostly looking forward to beginning the actual work of our trip. 