Woke up early and joined some students before breakfast, at 7:30am. Breakfast was too much food as expected, aka it was so good and I ate too much. I volunteered for the drone group, which I had no complaints about. Professor Kostis Kourelis and Professor Sarvis took a group of students out to a potential site for Washingtonia, supposedly a highly likely site for this set of structures. 

On the way to the site we saw a group of city workers collecting trash. Professor Kourelis quickly explained that they were hired by the city of Corinth and not doing public service. Overall a pretty interesting experience. A group and I had commented on the 'lack' of garabage and trash around the city and around the Acropolis. 

We essentially arrived in what looked like a standard olive field, nothing out of order or notable on the surface. We got the drone out despite the wind, which prevented us from doing the legit mapping, allowed us to take infared pictures of the location. Essentially, we were looking for very specific piece of Washingtonian's settlement. We reasoned that the optimal site would be able to view both the Aegean and Adriatic Sea. A part of the group assisted Professor Sarvis and the other group listened to Professor Kourelis lecture about the approach to cataloging and returning artifacts / items we find. We found a plastic car and a bunny wearing a hat playing the guitar. Despite talking about returning items we found, Kourelis took the bunny and car with him... I loved the drone outing, very informative and a great first experience into the approach of aerial surveying. 

The whole group meet from 12pm - 1pm for a lecture about the three main points in recent Greece history. 

By far the most notable activity today was exploring the Museum and site of The Temple of Apollo. We arrived around 4:00pm, and left around 7:00pm. Very very informative, Professor Kourelis assigned us to "find an object." At first, I found this bronze griffin head, which I thought was pretty cool. I don't know, I found it super insightful because obviously griffin's don't exist, even still the bronze head was highly detailed and like proportionally "right feeling". Then I found a fresco that was display, but not fully assembled. This piece was beautiful, really helped to remind me about the work it takes to assemble and revive the artifacts. A nice sign was posted apologizing for the incomplete work and reassuring it would be completed. Overall, I has quite an exhausting but highly informative time.