**Woke up early early to get some water from the local fresh paper pump. I actually really enjoyed the walk, “Dave” (The dog outside the Temple of Apollo) and I walked the whole way to the spigot. I met a local woman there filling multiple liters of water. She spoke basically no English but lit up when I greeted her and asked how she was doing (in Greek). To be honest, I didn’t catch her response, but otherwise it was a very wholesome interaction. 

Showed up to breakfast pretty early and Aiden (HU) and I had a very deep and intentional conversation about faith, death, and growth. One of my favorite interactions with another student on the trip. Alli and I are trying to make an intentional effort to include others, specifically those more outside of the larger groups. Breakfast was similar to before, still incredible food. 

Dr. Pettegrew taught an intro language lesson most sticking to the Greek alphabet. I had a terrible experience learning new languages, but I was fully embarrassed by the lesson. We translated a few words, and learned a couple phrases. Pettegrew continued to give us an overview of the final project options and different large projects we would contribute to throughout our time in Greece. He also explained the entire timeline from like 10,000 BC to Modern Greece, which was honestly very helpful for understanding the lectures from Professor Kourelis. Speaking of, he gave another lecture on the culture in Greece, pertaining to gender roles and history of them. Very insightful, very train of thought led but I enjoyed it.

We visited the Corinthian Isthmus Canal; incredibly, almost inconceivably large. Standing mid way, looking down was almost dizzying. We learned that it was basically an impossible feat to create the canal, but Nero started it. We watched people bungee jump off the bridge, it was very impressive.

We went to the beach! It was so refreshing and very appreciated. Despite the urchins, the beach was stunning. No sun burn at all, met a couple of other tourists, who were clearly confused when I approached them 'speaking' Greek.

We ended the day by visiting New Corinth, classic city vibe. We were immediately approached by people begging for donation and public indecent exposure. The pizza was by far the cheapest food so far, 3 large specialty pizza's for 45 Euro. What a steal! We asked the waitress for guidance on tipping culture, turns out, no tip is common and tends to relay the food was not special, but a tip of 1-2 Euro relays that the food was exceptional; quite reassuring to hear we have been over tipping. 