Began the day in a sweat, the air conditioning unit is either broken or we are too dumb to use it correctly. Got to breakfast slightly early and ate relatively quick because today we had a hike! 

The goal was to get there early, to avoid strong winds during the middle of the day. We left later than planned but no one seemed bother by it. Roughly a 15 min drive, largely East of Acrocorinth. When we arrived, we were face to face with a legit ridge line. (We were told it "wasn't steep" and would take '1-2 hours') Suffice it to say, this was more than an average hike in the woods. I'm talking no path, no flat surfaces what so ever. Quite intensive and very unpredictable. Here is our first stop, which many of us misunderstood as the last stop. 

An ancient wall, since turned to ruins.

A lot of informative lectures were given, and even more breaks in the hike were had. In total, I had 8,503 steps and roughly 900 feet (maybe meters) in elevation. Which not sound like a lot but it took 4.5 hours. Plenty of cuts, twisted ankles, a panic attack or two, and honestly, I look back on it fondly. Very grateful for the experience. 

Suffice it to say, we were EXHUASTED, took a quick shower break and grabbed lunch at a new place. "Aigil Ancient Corinth" had a beautiful, very peaceful upper balcony. The food was immaculate, and quite the steal. 

I did laundry for the first time here, it was a challenging experience but I figured it out eventually. Lots of wrinkly clothes but they are clean-ish. I took a much needed nap but without the AC, the outside warmer air wasn't the most refreshing. 

I visited a café on the corner, "Café Mousio" and had quite an experience with a local. A more disheveled man decided that he wanted 25 mins of my time while I attempted to order a iced espresso. I believe he wanted to buy me Ouza and coffee, which I politely attempted to reject. I presume he misunderstood me and somehow decided that I would return to meet him in one year's time. We got a great selfie and after comparing hair styles (aka, he caressed my hair and claimed it looked like his, which in fairness it did, he showed me pics from 23 years ago of him) He then explained that he was Mafia and that I am now Mafia. "Anywhere you go, you Mafia now" literally what he said. So that was definitely the high of my day. 