Church today, so we had to finish eating breakfast earlier, aka I was meant to wake up early. I got out of bed at 7:40 which was much later than I planned. For some reason no hot water, honestly my day was off to a rough start. Breakfast was good though, and I was happy to attend church.

The Greek Orthodox Church is intense, incense, idol worship, and a lot of Ancient Greek writing. We arrived a little early to find a car accident on the road we needed to turn down. It was cool to see the locals working together to clean up the mess, very similar atmosphere to home. Professor Pettegrew and Kourelis gave some insight to the building's history and significance. 

The service was interesting, shorter than I expected. I understood exactly zero percent of what was said but eventually I learned when I should be standing or sitting. I was taught a lot of things about the church, about saints, and communion. I was given some bread with interesting Greek letters on it, not the best bread in Greece but still good. Highlight of my time in the church was the ceiling, very intrigue paintings on every surface of the ceiling.  

We returned for a language lesson by a local grade school teacher, which went way better than I expected. Nick and I tackled it together, not to suggest that I truly remember anything specific but I feel more confident. We learned a couple of new phrases and words, than got great burgers from Knockout Burgers.

A couple of meetings later, we were leaving for a new archaeological site. Sadly, we got rained out but the indoor museum was pretty neat. Lots of cool artifacts and relics. 

We postponed our trip to Nafplion and returned for dinner. I made some lemonade with friends and got a great dinner at Aigli's. Overall, a solid rainy Sunday.