Breakfast in Delphi was great but rushed. Half of the group left the hotel for the Oracle of Delphi archaeological site around 8:00am. We walked there and met plenty of nice dogs which were all surprisingly large. One of them followed us into the site and past the ticket booth. 

The fist piece of the site we saw was the ancient treasury and then we saw the Temple of Apollo, which was also very intact. We saw a very impressive theatre which supposedly could sit 5,000 people at one point. A plague showed a picture of a more recent crowd, around 1900s, gathering on the steps. Continuing up the hill we saw the stadium, by far the largest ancient structure I've seen. From the height of the stadium we could see the Temple of Athena, which we sadly did not go visit. The museum was equally spectacular.

We went to a local café that sold the best Mountain Tea, also got the best and I mean the best chocolate croissant I have ever had. Also it was so cheap, I love hove inexpensive things are in Greece. I definitely feel like I should be charged more.

More shopping! Love it, I bought a beautiful olive wood bowl from a local shop owner that explained it was created locally from his son's olive trees. He also gave me a discount, so kind of him. 

The trip back from Delphi was rough, definitely felt longer than the ride up, but we got to stop at a Museum of Environmental Science. It was so worth it; overall a very informative but short lived museum. I noticed that they had computer accessible to the public, so I decided to sit and take a look. Literally, all I did was close the playing video and they had the admin command terminal open... that is crazy insecure. So I decided to shut my curiosity off and walked away from the computers. We are back in Ancient Corinth for a few more days of work!