#NetworkSecurity
# 3.1 Quiz
1. Which of the following are solutions that address physical security? (Select two.)
	1. Escort visitors at all times
	2. Require identification and name badges for all employees
2. You are the security administrator for a small business. The floor plan for your organization is shown in the figure below. You've hired a third-party security consultant to review your organization's security measures. She has discovered multiple instances where unauthorized individuals have gained access to your facility, even to very sensitive areas. She recommends that you provide employees with access badges and implement access badge readers to prevent this from happening in the future. Click on the office locations where access badge readers would be most appropriate.
	1. Front door / entering the facility
	2. Server Room
3. If a fingerprint or retina scan is required to open a secured door, which kind of physical security has been implemented?
	1. Biometric locks
4. Which option is a benefit of CCTV?
	1. Expand the area visible by security guards
5. You want to use CCTV to increase your physical security, and you want the ability to remotely control the camera position. Which camera type should you choose?
	1. PTZ
6. Which of the following controls is an example of a physical access control method?
	1. Locks on doors
7. Which of the following can be used to stop piggybacking at a front entrance where employees should swipe smart cards to gain entry?
	1. Deploy a mantrap
8. After a security event that involves a breach of physical security, what is the term used for the new measures, incident review, and repairs meant to stop a future incident from occurring?
	1. Recovery
9. Which kind of access control technology allows more than just the identity of an individual to be transmitted wirelessly to either allow or deny access?
	1. Smart card
10. Which of the following allows an easy exit of an area in the event of an emergency, but also prevents entry? (Select two.)
	1. Turnstile
	2. Double-entry door

# 3.2 Quiz
1. Your company has five salesmen who work out of the office and frequently leave their laptops laying on their desks in their cubicles. You are concerned that someone might walk by and take one of these laptops. Which of the following is the BEST protection implementation to address your concerns?
	1. Use cable locks to chain the laptops to the desks.
2. Your networking closet contains your network routers, switches, bridges, and some servers. You want to make sure an attacker is not able to gain physical access to the equipment in the networking closet. You also want to prevent anyone from reconfiguring the network to set up remote access or backdoor access. Which of the following measures are the best ways to secure your networking equipment from unauthorized physical access? (Select two. Each measure is part of a complete solution.)
	1. Place your networking equipment in a locked cage.
	2. Place your networking equipment in a room that requires key card entry.
3. You are an IT consultant. You are visiting a new client's site to become familiar with their network. As you walk around their facility, you note the following
-   When you enter the facility, a receptionist greets you and escorts you through a locked door to the work area where the office manager sits.
-   The office manager informs you that the organization's servers are kept in a locked closet. An access card is required to enter the server closet.
-   She informs you that server backups are configured to run each night. A rotation of tapes are used as the backup media.
-   You notice the organization's network switch is kept in the server closet.
-   You notice that a router/firewall/content filter all-in-one device has been implemented in the server closet to protect the internal network from external attacks.
-   The office manager informs you that her desktop system no longer boots and asks you to repair or replace it, recovering as much data as possible in the process. You take the workstation back to your office to work on it.
Which security-related recommendations should you make to this client?
	1. Implement a hardware checkout policy.
4. Which of the following is the most important thing to do to prevent console access to the router?
	1. Keep the router in a locked room.
5. Burning, pulping, and shredding are three ways to securely dispose of data in which form?
	1. Paper
6. A computer or small network that is not connected to the rest of the network or the internet is known as:
	1. Air gap
7. Which device is used to allow a USB device to charge but blocks the data transfer capabilities of the device?
	1. USB data blocker
8. Which device is often employed by power companies to protect cabling infrastructure from having cables added or removed and to prevent emissions from being retrieved from the air?
	1. PDS
9. Which special network area is used to provide added protection by isolating publicly accessible servers?
	1. DMZ
10. A Faraday cage is used to prevent what from leaving an area?
	1. Electromagnetic emissions

# 3.3 Quiz
1. It is important to follow correct procedures when running electrical cables next to data cables in order to protect against which environmental concern?
	1. Electromagnetic interference
2. Most equipment is cooled by bringing cold air in the front and ducting the heat out of the back. What is the term for where the heat is sent in this type of scenario?
	1. Hot aisle
3. What is the recommended humidity level for server rooms?
	1. 50%
4. Which deviation in power is the longest in duration?
	1. Blackout
5. Power, heating, ventilation, air conditioning systems (HVAC), and utilities are all components of which term?
	1. Infrastructure
6. You maintain a network for an industrial manufacturing company. You are concerned about the dust in the area getting into server components and affecting network availability. Which of the following should you implement?
	1. Positive pressure system
7. Components within your server room are failing at a rapid pace. You discover that the humidity in the server room is at 60% and the temperature is at 80 degrees. What should you do to help reduce problems?
	1. Add a separate A/C unit in the server room.
8. Which device is used to ensure power to a server or network device during short power outages?
	1. Uninterruptible power supply
9. Which of the following fire extinguisher types is best used for the electrical fires that might result when working with computer components?
	1. Class C
10. You walk by the server room and notice that a fire has started. What should you do first?
	1. Make sure everyone has cleared the area.