# Chapter 5 The Second-System Effect
## Add little to little and there will be a pile

The question posed in chapter five states "If one separates responsibility for functional specification from responsibility for building a fast, cheap product, what discipline bounds the architect's inventive enthusiasm?" (page 54) The author suggests a solution, a "thoroughgoing, careful, and sympathetic communication between architect and builder. Nevertheless there are finer-grained that answers that deserve attention." (page 54) I agree with the author, I believe direct caring communication in a strong consistent manner between the architect and the builder is the solution to this question. However, other answers that deserve more attention.

The author explains what the most dangerous system a man ever designs is. This concept is very important to me and I found it very interesting. He explains that "When he does his third and later ones [systems], his prior experiences will confirm each other as to general characteristics of such systems, and their differences will identify those parts of his experience that are particular and not generalizable." (page 55) This concept is really cool to me, and I believe it is explained very well here. After you have completed the first of something, you reach a vital point in your confidence and understanding of said thing. Upon starting again, everything you believe to understand with become ingrained, and they compound on your knowledge and overall ability to work on projects. The author suggests that people generally tend of over-design this second project, using all concepts and understandings being utilized.  I can confirm this is a tendency that I believe I have witnessed in my myself. After I prove my understanding in the beginning of a class, I become confident in my abilities and I tend to over compensate in the second iteration / phase of said project.

The author closes chapter five with another question. He asks "How does the project manager avoid the second-system effect? By insisting on a senior architect who has at least two systems under his belt. Too, by staying aware of the special temptations, he can ask the right questions to ensure that the philosophical concepts and objectives are fully reflected in the detailed design." (page 58) I personally agree with this insight, I believe it to be great advice in almost any area of the workforce. Insisting that an experienced person take the reigns, in this case the senior architect, you can ensure that you avoid the second-system effect, and keep your team focused on the right questions.

# Chapter 6 Passing the Word
## He'll sit here and he'll say, "Do this! Do that!" And nothing will happen.

The author opens chapter 6 with another question. He asks "How shall the manager ensure that everyone hears, understands, and implements the architects' decisions?" (page 62) This is assuming that he has the disciplined, experienced architects and that there are many implementers. I believe this question to hit closer to the heart of my interest in this design of a team. I am interested in hearing about the designers vision for communication between the levels of the hierarchy in this team design. He elaborates with an example: "How can a group of 10 architects maintain the conceptual integrity if a system which 1000 men are building? A whole technology for doing this was worked out for the System/360 hardware design effort, and it is equally applicable to software projects." (page 62) I appreciate the returning use of the system/306, it has created a great interest for me on that project. 

The written specification is vitally necessary, while not sufficient enough. This external specification of the product describes and prescribes every details of what the user sees; this suggests that it is the chief product of architect. This cycle will continue over and over as the feedback form users and implementers shows where the design is awkward to use or build. An important addition to end this loop is to make the manual include all interfaces; it must also refrain from describing what the user does not see. "That is the implementer's business, and there his design freedom must be unconstrained. The architect must always be prepared to show an implementation for any feature he describes, but he must also not attempt to dictate the implementation." (page 62) This balancing act sounds next to impossible but also necessary to the production line that is the team.

Meetings and conferences are also vital to the team, the produce conversation which leads to better communication. Anyone can purpose problems or changes, but proposals are usually distributed in writing before the meeting. The author provides the fruitfulness of meetings, and where they come from. He lists "1. the same group - architects, users, and implementers... 2. The group is bright, resourceful, well versed in the issues and deeply involved in the outcome... 3. When problems are raised, solutions are sought both within and outside the obvious boundaries. 4. The formality of written proposals focuses attention, forces decision, and avoid committee-drafted inconsistencies. 5. The clear vesting of decision-making power in the chief architect avoids compromise and delay" (page 67) This list of sources that produce fruitful meetings is extremally important and very notable. I believe this to be the essence of good meetings, which leads to better communication, a key to an effective team.