# 2.1 Quiz
1. An employee stealing company data could be an example of which kind of threat actor?
	1. Internal Threat
2. Which of the following is the BEST definition of the term _hacker?_
	1. A general term used to describe any individual who uses their technical knowledge to gain unauthorized access to an organization.
3. Which of the following threat actors seeks to defame, shed light on, or cripple an organization or government?
	1. Hacktivist
4. The IT manager in your organization proposes taking steps to deflect a potential threat actor. The proposal includes the following:
	Create and follow onboarding and off-boarding procedures.
	Employ the principal of least privilege.
   Have appropriate physical security controls in place.
Which type of threat actor do these steps guard against?
		1. Insider
5. A script kiddie is a threat actor who lacks knowledge and sophistication. Script kiddie attacks often seek to exploit well-known vulnerabilities in systems. What is the BEST defense against script kiddie attacks?
	1. Keep systems up to date and use standard security practices.
6. A hacker scans hundreds of IP addresses randomly on the internet until they find an exploitable target. What kind of attack is this?
	1. Opportunistic attack
7. Match the general attack strategy on the left with the appropriate description on the right. (Each attack strategy may be used once, more than once, or not all.)
	1. Stealing information.
		1. Exploitation
	2. Preparing a computer to perform additional tasks in the attack.
		1. Staging
	3. Crashing systems.
		1. Exploitation
	4. Gathering system hardware information.
		1. Reconnaissance
	5. Penetrating system defenses to gain unauthorized access.
		1. Breaching
	6. Configuring additional rights to do more than breach the system.
		1. Escalating Privileges
8. Match the general defense methodology on the left with the appropriate description on the right. (Each methodology may be used once, more than once, or not all.)
	1. The constant change in personal habits and passwords to prevent anticipated events and exploitation.
		1. Randomness
	2. Diversifying layers of defense.
		1. Variety
	3. Giving users only the access they need to do their job and nothing more.
		1. Principle of least privilege
	4. Implementing multiple security measures to protect the same asset.
		1. Layering
	5. Eliminating single points of failure.
		1. Layering
	6. Giving groups only the access they need to do their job and nothing more.
		1. Principle of least privilege
9. Which of the following is the BEST example of the principle of least privilege?
	1. Wanda has been given access to the files that she needs for her job.
10. In which phase of an attack does the attacker gather information about the target?
	1. Reconnaissance


# 2.2 Quiz
1. A collection of zombie computers have been set up to collect personal information. Which type of malware do the zombie computers represent?
	1. Botnet
2. Which kind of virus operates only in memory and usually exploits a trusted application like PowerShell to circumvent traditional endpoint security solutions?
	1. Fileless virus
3. Which of the following describes a logic bomb?
	1. A program that performs a malicious activity at a specific time or after a triggering event.
4. A type of malware that prevents the system from being used until the victim pays the attacker money is known as what?
	1. Ransomware
5. Which kind of malware provides an attacker with administrative control over a target computer through a backdoor?
	1. Remote Access Trojan (RAT)
6. Which of the following are characteristics of a rootkit? (Select two.)
	1. Resides below regular antivirus software detection.
	2. Requires administrator-level privileges for installation.
7. Which of the following best describes spyware?
	1. It monitors the actions you take on your machine and sends the information back to its originating source.
8. Which of the following is a program that appears to be a legitimate application, utility, game, or screensaver, but performs malicious activities surreptitiously?
	1. Trojan horse
9. In 2001, a worm exploited vulnerabilities in Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) to infect over 250,000 systems in under nine hours. What was this worm called?
	1. Code Red
10. You have installed antivirus software on the computers on your network. You update the definition and engine files and configure the software to update those files every day. What else should you do to protect your systems from malware? (Select two.)
	1. Schedule regular full-system scans.
	2. Educate users about malware.


# 2.3 Quiz
1. Ron, a hacker, wants to get access to a prestigious law firm he has been watching for a while. June, an administrative assistant at the law firm, is having lunch at the food court around the corner from her office. Ron notices that June has a picture of a dog on her phone. He casually walks by and starts a conversation about dogs. Which phase of the social engineering process is Ron in?
	1. Development phase
2. Social engineers are master manipulators. Which of the following are tactics they might use?
	1. Moral obligation, ignorance, and threatening
3. Any attack involving human interaction of some kind is referred to as what?
	1. Social engineering
4. An organization's receptionist received a phone call from an individual claiming to be a partner in a high-level project and requesting sensitive information. The individual is engaging in which type of social engineering?
	1. Authority
5. Which of the following is a common social engineering attack?
	1. Distributing hoax virus-information emails
6. Which of the following BEST describes an inside attacker?
	1. An unintentional threat actor. This is the most common threat.
7. Which of the following are examples of social engineering attacks? (Select three.)
	1. Keylogging
	2. Impersonation
	3. Shoulder surfing
8. Compliments, misinformation, feigning ignorance, and being a good listener are tactics of which social engineering technique?
	1. Elicitation
9. Having a legitimate reason for approaching someone to ask for sensitive information is called what?
	1. Impersonation
10. Jason is at home, attempting to access the website for his music store. When he goes to the website, it has a simple form asking for a name, email, and phone number. This is not the music store website. Jason is sure the website has been hacked. How did the attacker accomplish this hack?
	1. DNS cache poisoning


# 2.4 Quiz
1. Every ACME computer comes with the same account created at the factory. Which kind of vulnerability is this?
	1. Default accounts and passwords
2. In healthcare, regulations often dictate that important systems remain unpatched to maintain compliance. Which kind of vulnerability does this introduce?
	1. Inherent vulnerabilities
3. Which security control, if not applied, can allow an attacker to bypass other security controls?
	1. Physical access control
4. A user is able to access privileged administrative features with an account that is not granted administrator rights. Which type of vulnerability is this?
	1. Privilege escalation
5. The root account has all privileges and no barriers. Which of the following is another name for the root account?
	1. Superuser account
6. Superuser account
	1. Weak security configurations
7. Sometimes, an attacker's goal is to prevent access to a system rather than to gain access. This form of attack is often called a denial-of-service attack and causes which impact?
	1. Availability loss
8. When confidential or protected data is exposed, either intentionally or accidentally, it is considered to be which of the following?
	1. Data breach
9. DNS tunneling is a common method that allows an attacker to accomplish which attack?
	1. Data exfiltration
10. Which impact of vulnerabilities occurs when an attacker uses information gained from a data breach to commit fraud by doing things like opening new accounts with the victim's information?
	1. Identity theft