#BusinessStrategyExecution 
Apart from considerations of offensive and defensive competitive moves and their timing, another set of managerial decisions can affect the strength of a company’s market position. These decisions concern the scope of the firm—the breadth of a company’s  activities and the extent of its market reach. For example, Ralph Lauren Corporation designs, markets, and distributes fashionable apparel and other merchandise to approximately 9,000 major department stores and specialty retailers around the world, plus it also operates over 150 Ralph Lauren retail stores, 325 factory stores, and more than 10 e-commerce sites. Scope decisions also concern which segments of the market to serve—decisions that can include geographic market segments as well as product and service segments. More than 55 percent of Ralph Lauren’s sales are made outside the United States, and its product line includes apparel, fragrances, home furnishings, eyewear, watches and jewelry, and handbags and other leather goods. The company has also expanded its brand lineup into various price point segments that range from Chaps to Ralph Lauren Collection and Ralph Lauren Purple Label.


The **scope of the firm** refers to the range of activities the firm performs internally, the breadth of its product and service offerings, the extent of its geographic market presence, and its mix of businesses.


Four dimensions of firm scope have the capacity to strengthen a company’s position in a given market: the breadth of its product and service offerings, the range of activities the firm performs internally, the extent of its geographic market presence, and its mix of businesses. In this chapter, we discuss horizontal and vertical scope decisions in relation to its breadth of offerings and range of internally performed activities. A company’s horizontal scope, which is the range of product and service segments that it serves, can be expanded through new-business development or mergers and acquisitions of other companies in the marketplace. The company’s vertical scope is the extent to which it engages in the various activities that make up the industry’s entire value chain system—from raw-material or component production all the way to retailing and after-sales service. Expanding a company’s vertical scope by means of vertical integration can also affect the strength of a company’s market position.

**Horizontal scope** is the range of product and service segments that a firm serves within its focal market.

**Vertical scope** is the extent to which a firm’s internal activities encompass one, some, many, or all of the activities that make up an industry’s entire value chain system, ranging from raw-material production to final sales and service activities.