Stephen Collins Foster was the most important composer of popular songs in the 19th century. Foster produced approximately 200 popular songs between 1840 and his death in 1864. He was likely to have been the first person to make his full-time livelihood as a songwriter, living on fees and royalties generated by sales of sheet music and even rolls for player pianos.

Foster was born and raised in the Pittsburgh Pennsylvania area where the songs were dominated by the musical styles of the English and in a smaller part, the Irish. This style of music was thought to be a mark of gentility by upwardly mobile Caucasian Americans. Foster also incorporated the midcentury American styles derived from the Italians  
and Germans, and drew with a degree of expertise on the African American styles, inauthentic as they were at the time, of minstrelsy. He brilliantly assimilated the music of two predominant sources of tradition into contagiously catchy pop songs, replete with hooks, as no one before him or at his time had done: the lofty, sentimental genteel sounds of European ballads, and the wildly popular, rhythmically infectious sounds of African American music. Foster’s minstrelsy- inspired tunes were generally referred to as “plantation songs”. Stephen Foster established the models for generations of American songwriters.

Among his most popular compositions were:  
“Jeanie with the Light Brown Hair”  
“Beautiful Dreamer”  
“Oh! Susanna”  
“Camptown Races”  
The Old Folks at Home  
The Old Folks at Home (a.k.a.“Swanee River”), published in 1851, was  
his biggest hit, selling over 100,000 copies of sheet music, which is  
comparable to a million-selling record by today’s standards.  
Publishers were stealthy, purchasing his songs at low prices and  
marketing them as both singalong tunes and as instrumental hits for  
player pianos. The arrangements were also done in popular dance  
styles of the day such as quadrilles, polkas and quicksteps.  
Stephen Foster was a huge money maker for the business, yet enjoyed  
very few of the fruits of his own labor. “Oh! Susanna” (1847) was  
initially purchased for $100 and instantly made thousands of dollars for  
the publisher, of which Foster never saw another dime. In 1864  
Stephen Collins Foster, legendary to this day, died in obscurity and  
poverty.
