###### Recent Report: "Hamas Attacks Israel Operation 'Al-Aqsa Flood'"
- Surprise attack early Saturday morning Oct 7
	- Jewish holiday of Simchat Torah
	- Day after 50th anniversary of 1873 Yom Kippur War
- Air, sea & land: estimated > 1,000 Hamas fighters
- Used missiles, bulldozers, hang gliders, motorbikes
- Killed over 1,200 Israelis, mainly civilians
	- Unknown # of hostages taken back to Gaza Strip
# Israel's Response to "Israel's 9/11"
- Declaration of war - Operation "Swords of Iron"
- Israeli Defense Force (IDF)
	- Deployed units to regain control of areas near Gaza
	- 360,000 IDF reservists mobilized
- Hundreds of air strikes on Gaza Strip
	- >1000 Palestinians killed, thousands injured, >200k, displaced
- Israel's defense minister orders "complete siege" of Gaza
	- Blocked entry of food, water, medicine, fuel and electricity

# Hamas' Attacks - What makes this Terrorism?
- Class Suggestions
	- Clear political purpose
	- Non-combatants attacks
	- Planned and systematic attack
- - - 
- Planned and systematic **violent** acts (or threat thereof)
- Political in nature
- Aims for psychological impact
- Target deliberately includes non-combatants
- One definition: "the deliberate **creation and exploitation of fear** through violence or the threat of violence in the pursuit of political change." (Hoffman, 44)
- Organizations & individuals 
- Yet states employ terror as well

- **Why** did Hamas launch these attacks?
	- What are Hamas' objectives: tactical, operational, strategic?
	- How is Hamas ethically justifying the attacks?
- What are Israel's objectives in its response?
	- How is Israel ethically justifying that response?
- What has been the response by the US and other nations?

- Psychological attack
- Awareness
- Disrupt agreements
- Improve conditions for Palestinians / West Bank residents
- Penetrate border / Kill people
- Eliminate Israel's sense of invincibility
- Russian interference?

- **Subversive Ethics**
## The Gaza Strip
-- "The World's-Target Open-Air Prison"
- Israel occupied the Gaza Strip starting in 1967
- In 2005, nearly 8,000 Jewish settlers and Israeli soldiers living in 21 settlements around Gaza were relocated mostly to the occupied West Bank following a decision by the-Israeli PM Sharon. Most of these settlements were in Khan Younis
- The Gaza Strip has been under an Israeli-imposed land, sea, and air blockade for the past 16 years
- Palestinians who wish to leave must apply for a limited number of passes to leave the Gaza Strip. This process may take weeks or months, depending on the status of the border.
- Only 5% of Gaza's water is safe to drink