#ResLife
I feel drawn to the SRA position because of my previous experiences with Messiah's Residence Life program. Within my current position I have found many opportunities to pour into my team dynamics by supporting my team members, encouraging reconciliation between members, and holding problem solving meetings with my Residence Director. I have loved every minute of this time. These opportunities where I can support and assist in developing my team fuel my motivation to be an SRA. I feel drawn to this position as it would allow me to directly be involved in team dynamics and supporting my Residence Director and team members.



I believe I would be challenged by potentially limited extracurricular involvement. I intentionally push myself to try out new clubs, positions, and professional opportunities, while also maintaining my responsibilities towards my previous commitments. Previously, I have overcome this challenge by maintaining strong communication with my Residence Director about my extracurricular involvement. I do hold a paid position on campus with Two Bridges Catering. I tend to work only when needed by my supervisor. I do not believe this challenge will prompt difficult solutions, however, I am willing to prioritize my RA/SRA responsibilities before all other extracurricular involvement. I value the impact Messiah's Residence Life has on my life more than my other commitments.

"If on campus paid work beyond the SRA role is desired, it can be no more than five hours per week and must be approval by your RD prior to starting. In addition, other extracurricular involvements and/or other off campus work opportunities should be discussed with your RD to ensure adequate time to perform your SRA duties"
