#ChristianTheology
# Are you a Believer?
- Those why REFUSE to venture into the activity of deliberate theological reflection are not really "believers" in the strictest sense
- Believing entails a trusting beyond what can be known for certain
- They could probably more correctly be called "knowers"

# Thinking Theologically:
## Individual or Communal Activity?
- While it is important for each of us to be theologically reflective Christians, thinking theologically is most productive when done with brothers and sisters on the same path.
- They may have important questions or insights that I have not considered
- "Going public" with your thinking theologically (thoughts, questions, maybe even doubts) can only be done well in a sage, affirming, believing community

## Reaching Conclusions
- Theological reflection is less about getting the right answer and more about asking the right kind of question
- The ultimate goal of thinking theologically is to better understand God and to more clearly reflect God's character

# Why is Thinking Theologically Necessary?
- Cultural Pressures
	- The rise of the New Atheism (or anti-theism)
- Richard Dawkins:
	- " While it is important for each of us to be theologically reflective Christians, thinking theologically is most productive when done with rothers and sisters on the same path. The achievements of theologians don't do anything, don't affect anything, don't mean anything. What makes anyone think that "theology" is a subject at all?"
- Cultural Pressures
	- The rise of the New Atheism (anti-theism)
	- Concerns from Postmodernity
		- Complexity of life
			- As life becomes more complex and people become more personally detached from one another, the Church’s proclivity to offer overly simplistic answers hinders the hearing of the gospel.
		- Truth and Reality
		- The question for postmoderns is, is it good?
	- Aiming at the Right Goal
		- James K.A. Smith
	- "What if the primary work of education was the transformation of our imagination rather than the saturation of our intellect? And what if this had as much to do with our bodies as with our minds? What if education wasn’t first and foremost about what we know, but about what we love?"
		- James Smith, Desiring the Kingdom, 17-18

## The Goal for Theology
- How do we speak about God in ways that stir our passions and form the right kind of appetites, that captures what Chesterton referred to as the "romance of orthodoxy”?
- “so that revealed truth can always be more deeply penetrated, better understood and set forth to greater advantage.” 
	- Gaudium et spes, 44

## Biblical Reasons
- Jesus replied: “‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. (Matt. 22:37)  
	- First and greatest commandment. (.38)
- Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children. In regard to evil be infants, but in your thinking be adults. (I Corinthians 14:20)

## Our Limited Understanding
- Relationships are based upon the dynamism of knowing and being known.  
- We do not know God nor do we understand any situation fully. (modern, postmodern, critical realist)

## A Form of Worship
- Love God with our mind  
- God deserves our best, and our best means some degree of intentionality and thoughtfulness.

## Part of Spiritual Maturity
- Fowler's 7 Stages of Faith Development:
- Stage 3. Synthetic-conventional: In this stage, a person knows why he/she believes. One pulls together various parts of faith and tends to  conform to the majority, and people are rewarded or punished for following rules laid down by the proper authority (the church or Bible)
- Stage 3. Individuals tend to have conformist acceptance of a belief with little self-reflection on examination of these beliefs.  
	- Most people remain at this level.
- Stage 4. Individuative-reflective: There is a relocation of authority within the self, along with a critical reflection of one's beliefs. Faith becomes uniquely one's own. In addition, there is usually a struggle to grow and understand.
- Stage 4. Fowler says, "For a genuine move to stage 4 to occur there must be an interruption of reliance on external sources of authority ... There must be ... a relocation of authority within the self" (p. 179). - James Fowler, Stages of Faith: The Psychology of Human Development and the Quest for Meaning (1981)

# An Exercise in Thinking Theologically
- Some Theological “Truths” that May Not Be True  
	- God’s ultimate purpose is saving people  
	- Christians should read their Bible daily  
	- Christians will spend eternity in heaven  
	- Christians must not pray with and through departed Christians.

# Theological Method
- Apophatic
- Kataphic
- Dialectic

## Apophatic Theology
- From Greek meaning negation
- Via Negativa
- Apophatic theology holds that God cannot be understood in terms of finite human reason
- Finitum non est capax infiniti
- "God is infinite and incomprehensible and all that is comprehensible about Him is His infinity and incomprehensibility."
	- - On the Orthodox Faith, John of Damascus 
	--- Difference of essence and energy, we know God by His energy, we can't penetrate His essence
- We do not know what God is. God Himself does not know what He is because He is not anything. Literally God is not, because He transcends being."  
	- John Scotus Eriugena c.815 – c. 877
- God is therefore understood in negation
	- God is not finite = Infinite
	- God is not mortal = Immortal
	- God cannot be adequately communicated = Ineffable
	- God cannot be totally understood = Incomprehensible

## Kataphatic (cataphatic) Theology
- Theology by way of affirmation
- Via Positiva 

## Dialectical Theology
- Tries to hold the balance between two seemingly mutually exclusive ideas
- Barth and Bultmann are among the biggest names
	- God is hidden and revealed 
	- God is transcendent and immanent

---
# Prolegomena
--- Sources, Revelation, Method

## Resources for theology
- Scritpure (more important than rest)
- Tradition
- Reason
- Experience
- Biblical message
- Theological heritage of the church
- Through forms of our culture

- Pyramid:
	- Experience
	- Psychology
	- Reason
	- Tradition
	- Scripture (more important than rest)
	- Prof suggests that your perspective on your experiences also matters
	- Prof suggests that your community also is integral 

#### "It is Our book, before it is My book." - Prof Douglas 

## Resources for theology
- While nearly, all Christians will agree on the sources, we will not necessarily agree on the significance given to each or the way in which appeal is made to them
- Irenaeus and Origen on 1 Cor. 15:50

# Revelation
- What are we presuming by starting here?
	- God has revealed himself to us
- Accommodation / Condescension
	- God has to talk baby talk to us

## General and Special Revelation
- Revelation = God's self-disclosure
- General Revelation = God's self-disclosure to all humans or humans in general. Communicated naturally
- Special revelaiton = God's self-disclosure to cerntain special or specific persons. Communicated supernaturally. God's acts, words, incarnation, record of these in Bible

# Bibliology
- The Doctrine of Scripture 

## Meaning of Scripture
- Texts form specific religious traditions which are considered to be sacred or of central importance to that tradition. Most religious believe that their sacred texts are supernaturally revealed or inspired
- There are various Scriptures (Bible, Quran, Vedas)

## The Nature of Scripture
- Inspiration
- Illumination
- Canonization
- Transmission / Preservation
- Authority
- Interpretation

### Inspiration
- "To say that the Bible is 'inspired' means at at least that in some way the literature in that book owes its origin to God himself and to the events behind which he stood." 
	- Paul Achtemeier
- Literally, "to breath into"
- Inspiration is the Spirit's guidance of the authors of Scripture
- Applies to writers and compilers of Scripture (2 Pet. 1:21) and to the finished produce (2 Tim. 3:16)
- Verbal plenary inspiration
- Does inspiration cover everything in the Bible or those portions necessary for salvation?

- Does not just indicate something about composition, but points to the telos of Scripture
- Cannot be dogmatic about the mechanics of inspiration

#### Views of Inspiration
- Natural (intuition view)
	- Illumination
		- General
			- Accommodation / Confirmation
		- Dynamic
	- Verbal Plenary
- Dictation

- Natural (intuition view)
	- "The functioning of of a high gift, perhaps almost like an artistic ability but nonetheless a natural endowment, a permanent possession" 
		- Millard J. Erickson, Christian Theology 
- Illumination view
	- "the Bible as a whole was accomplished by an extraordinary stimulation and elevation of the powers of men who devoutly yielded themselves to God's will."
		- L. Harold DeWolf, A Theology of the living Church

# Inerrancy
- Difference with infallibility
- D. A. Carson "rightly understood, the word 'inerrancy' in the theological arena has become a way of talking about the Bible's truthfulness."
- Prof think we can say no to the current Bible being inerrant, without taking anything away from scripture