# Illumination
- Illumination is the Spirit's guidance of the readers and hearers of Scripture
	- It's needed because sin has darkened our perceptions so that we can't reliably understand and recognize God's truth (Rom. 1:18-23, 2 Cor. 4:4)
	- The Spirit's action enables people to understand God's truth (1 Cor. 2:6-16; 2 Cor. 3:14-17; 4:6; John 15:26) 
	- The Spirit continues to guide believers into truth (John 14:26)

# Canon and Canonization
## Canon
- What does it mean?
- What does canonization mean?
- Canon within canon?
	- To gravitate towards / away from specific scripture 

## Canonization
- Canonization Is a process
- Canonization happened in a context
	- Political pressures during the process
	- Complicated perspectives on Constantine 
- What factors played into the formation of the canon?
- What is the purpose of canonization?
- Must have pneumatology that allows for Holy Spirit role in canonization

## Detailed Look 
- First Testament: TaNaK
- T - ca. 400 B.C.E
- N - ca. 200 B.C.E
- K - ca. 90 C.E
- Samaritans rejected all but Pentateuch

- Council of Carthage 397 - "aside from the canonical Scriptures nothing is to be read in church under the Name or Divine Scriptures"
- Athanasius festal Letter 367 - "Let no one add to these; let nothing be taken away."
- Dionysius of Alexandria - indicates some fluidity by end of 3rd century Revelations accepted more in West than East; Hebrews more in East than West. Dionysius supported James and 2, 3 John but not 2 Peter or Jude
- Origen (180-220) – wrote commentaries and sermons on most of the NT, emphasizing their inspiration by God 
- Irenaeus 180’s– trained by Polycarp and Bishop Pothinus (both had contact with first generation Christians)
- Irenaeus quotes from almost all of NT as authoritative (4 gospels, Acts, 1 Peter, 1 John, all Paul except Philemon, and Rev)
- Tatian 170 – student of Justin Martyr composed the Diatessaron, harmony of 4 Gospels (others known)
- Justin Martyr 150’s – in describing the worship in the early church, puts the writings of the apostles on same level as Old Testament prophets

- Marcion's Canon (140)
- Gospel of Truth (140): employs citations from the Gospels, Acts, Letters of Paul, Hebrews, and Rev.
- Ryland papyrus (from Egypt) 123 - Apostle John's writing revered and copied

- 3 outstanding church fathers, Clement, Polycarp and Ignatius used the bulk of the NT in a casual manner – being accepted as authoritative without argument.  
- In fact, only Mark, 2 and 3 John, Jude and 2 Peter are not clearly referenced.  
- Of the Apostolic Fathers, Clement of Rome, Ignatius, and Barnabas clearly distinguish between their writing and those of the first disciples
- Didache – makes reference to written gospel.
- Clement of Rome (ca 95) in writing to Cor., uses Matt and Luke, shows influence of Hebrews and is clearly familiar with Romans and Corinthians. There are also indications of 1 Tim, Titus, 1 Peter and Eph.

- I Thes. 5.27; 2.13; I Cor. 14.37; Col. 4.16; Rev. 1:3  
- 2 Peter 3:15-16  
- I Tim. 5.18 (Deut. 25.4 w/ Luke 10.7)


# Transmission / Preservation
- We believe that the Holy Spirit was actively involved in overseeing careful transmission of the text


# What is authority?
- The power or right to command, act, decide
- Such power delegated to another
- Power resulting from knowledge
- Citation of a writing in support of a position
- Reliability of a source
- An expert
- Self-assurance, expertness secondary to experience

- The Christian claim that the Bible is authoritative is probably one of the most fundamental beliefs, yet it is given almost no thought or attention
- What does that mean to say the Bible is authoritative?
- Where does its authority reside?

- What sort of authority do the biblical texts hold?
- Are there features in the texts themselves which demand such authority, or is their status conferred by some external entity?
- Are there certain conditions which must be met for scripture to obtain its authority (or conditions under which its authority might be lost)?

# Biblical Criticism
- The "critical" study of Scripture is the application of academic inquiry to the Bible as a historical text
- Biblical criticism is not the same as criticism of the Bible, but the first can lead to the second

## Kinds of Criticism
- Lower
	- Text
- Higher
	- Source
	- Form
	- Redaction
	- Canonical
	- Narrative

## What is it? (or What isn't it?)
- “is not an imposition of a theological system or confessional grid onto the biblical text.”  
	- not governed by external influence or commitments 
- “is not an imposition of a general hermeneutic or theory of interpretation onto the biblical text.”  
- “is not a form of merely historical, literary, or sociological criticism preoccupied with (respectively) the world ‘behind,’ ‘of,’ or ‘in front of ’ the biblical text.”


## Theological Interpretation of Scripture
1. Scripture truthfully tells the story of God’s action of creating, judging, and saving the world.  
2. Scripture is rightly understood in light of the church’s rule of faith as a coherent dramatic narrative.  
3. Faithful interpretation of Scripture requires an engagement with the entire narrative: the New Testament cannot be rightly understood apart from the Old, nor can the Old be rightly understood apart from the New.
4. Texts of Scripture do not have a single meaning limited to the intent of the original author. In accord with Jewish and Christian traditions, we affirm that Scripture has multiple complex senses given by God, the author of the whole drama.
5. The four canonical Gospels narrate the truth about Jesus.
6. Faithful interpretation of Scripture invites and presupposes participation in the community brought into being by God’s redemptive action—the church.  
7. The saints of the church provide guidance in how to interpret and perform Scripture.  
8. Christians need to read the Bible in dialogue with diverse others outside the church.  
9. We live in the tension between the “already” and the “not yet” of the kingdom of God; consequently, Scripture calls the church to ongoing discernment, to continually fresh rereadings of the text in light of the Holy Spirit’s ongoing work in the world

## Characteristics
- Does not ignore critical approaches to Scripture
- Neither does it forget the divine role in the authorship of Scripture
- It attempts to relocate Scripture with the believing community being the primary interpretive framework rather than the academy

## Benefits
- Takes whole Bible seriously  
- Takes Bible’s claim of Holy Writ seriously  
- Allows for plurality of meanings. 
- Perhaps the most “historical” approach

## Potential Pitfalls
- Never escapes presuppositions
- Plurality of Meaning

## Stephen Fowl
- “Theological interpretation of Scripture will involve those habits, dispositions, and practices that Christians bring to their varied engagements with Scripture in ways that will enhance their journey toward their proper end in God.”