#ChristianTheology
# Theology Proper
## Where do we start?
- God exists.
- Two kinds of arguments.
	- Probabilistic - He probably exists
	- Deductive:
		- a class of arguments which are deductive in form and proceed from premises which are difficult to deny; these arguments claim to be demonstrations of God’s existence, proofs if you will (disbelief is not reasonable)

## Arguments for God's Existence
- Ontological argument (Anselm) 
	- Prof: "God is that which nothing greater can be thought"
	- Essentially, definitionally God is the greatest thing that can be thought of, and it would be greater if He did exist, so He does 
- Cosmological argument (Aquinas)  
	- Everything has a cause, all the way back to a "Prime Mover"
	- At some point, something needed to be created from nothing
- Teleological argument (Aquinas)
	- Also called the "watchmakers" and "fine-tunning" argument
	- Intentional creation deduced my intricacies in physics, chemistry, etc.
- Anthropological or moral argument (Kant)
	- Anthropological has to do with evolution
	- Moral says our sense of right and wrong is God given
		- "Morality . . . "

## Quotes
- "I have a story that will make you believe in God"
	- Yann Martel, Life of Pi
- "A structure this pretty just had to exist"
	- James Watson on the molecular structure of DNA
- "I would find it hard to believe that this much elegance and mathematical beauty would be wasted"
	- Steven Weinberger on string-theory

## Attributes
- One way God's attributes can be classifies are the two categories or incommunicable and communicable
- His *incommunicable* traits are those that cannot be said to be true, even analogically, or humans
- God's communicable attributes are shared analogically with human begins because we are God's image bearers


### What Can We Say?
- God exists. (aseity)
	- God is living.
	- God is personal / relational.
	- God is spirit.
- God is Transcendent (wholly other)

### The Nature of God
- What does it mean to say that God is spirit?
	- God doesn't have a physical (material) nature
	- Hebrew ruach and Greek pneuma (spirit) can mean breath, wind, air

### Incommunicable Attributes
- Simplicity
- Aseity
- Immutability
- Impassibility 
- Eternity

#### Simplicity
- God's simplicity means he is undivided and indivisible
- God is not complex or composed of different parts
- God's attributes are not different aspects of his essence; they are descriptions of his unified being

#### Aseity
- God is perfectly self-existent and independent from his creation
- God is in no way dependent on creation for his being or happiness
- The world adds nothing to God

- While aseity is characteristic of God, we are  contingent creatures.
- Contingent in 2 ways  
- Unnecessary  
- Dependent

#### Immutability and Impassibility
- God’s immutability is his unchangeableness  
- His impassibility is his incapacity for being overwhelmed by suffering

#### Immutability
- What are we affirming?
- Views of immutability have two extremes  
- God the Unmoved Mover (Greek philosophy)  
- God evolving with the world (process thought)
- Biblical emphasis: constancy of character
- God’s “repentance” works against complete immutability.  
- God is faithful, but he changes his actions in response to human actions. 
- The incarnation undercuts immutability

#### Impassibility
- What are we affirming?  
- Immutability is linked to impassibility. 
	- Greek idea of perfection as static.  
	- Any change would mean imperfection.  
	- Therefore God could have no emotions.
- This impacts our doctrine in many ways:  
	- Affects transcendence and immanence.  
	- Also God’s responsiveness and relationality.  
	- Affects the incarnation and atonement.

#### Eternity
- The term given to how God transcends time.  
- Property of existing permanently without beginning and end.  
- The issues of time becomes immediately relevant to the discussion of eternity.  
- Our understanding of time affects our understanding of eternity.
- Is eternity (and specifically God’s eternity) to be understood as timelessness or forever-ness?
- Remember Dogma, Doctrine, Opinion  
- That God is eternal (not bound by time or space is Christian dogma)  
- How God transcends time and space is at best doctrine, maybe opinion.

### Other Incommunicable Attributes
- Holiness
- Omnipotence 
- Omnipresence  
- Omniscience  
- Sovereignty  
- Spirit 
- Transcendence  
- Uniqueness

### Communicable Attributes
- Wisdom  
- Knowledge  
- Power  
- Holiness  
- Righteousness  
- Justice 
- Jealousy  
- Wrath  
- Goodness  
- Love  
- Mercy  
- Hate?

### Other Ways of Talking About Attributes
- Essence and Energies 
	- Glory of God
- Primary or Essential Attributes
- Physical Attributes


Prof: "Death for a Christian should be like trees in the Winter, you don't fear it because you know its coming"


### Another Way of Talking About  Attributes  
- Primary or Essential Attributes  
	- 3 Omnis  
	- 2 Ims  (Immortal + Impassable)
- Relational Attributes  
	- Living  
	- Personal  
	- Relational  
	- Good  
	- Loving

### Minimal Affirmation
- Omnipresence - We can trust God to be there for us
- Omniscient - We can trust God's wisdom to guide us
- ...