#ChristianTheology
# Spiritual Co-creations

## Enchanted vs. Disenchanted Age
- “Disenchanted” first used by Max Weber (d. 1920) to describe the absence of the sacred in the modern world.
- Where most former cultures experienced the world around them as charged with power, we do not.
- “Earth's crammed with heaven, And every common bush afire with God, But only he who sees takes off his shoes; The rest sit round and pluck blackberries.”  - Elizabeth Barrett Browning

## Charles Taylor
- "Why was it virtually impossible not to believe in God in, say, 1500 in our Western society, while in 2000 many of us find this not only easy but inescapable?” - A Secular Age
- People in the middle ages lived in a world in which the “conditions of belief,” the very fabric of society, reinforced belief in God. 
- Today the opposite is true.
- These people lived in an enchanted world haunted by ghosts, spirits, demons, and filled with saints, holy places, and relics.
- All of reality was flush with the Divine. For us today, this has changed. We live in a disenchanted, scientific world.
- We no longer worry about demons, or spirits, we think of the world in terms of atoms in motion or a giant machine, our society goes on without the providential protection of God.  
- We live in an completely immanent world, that is, in a world closed off from transcendence.

## Paul Hiebert
- Flaw of the Excluded Middle
- The reasons for my uneasiness with the biblical and Indian worldviews should be clear. I had excluded the middle level of supernatural this-worldly beings and forces from my own worldview. As a scientist I had been trained to deal with the empirical world in naturalistic terms
- As a theologian I was taught to answer ultimate questions in theistic terms. For me the middle zone did not really exist. Unlike Indian villagers, I had given little thought to spirits of this world, to local ancestors and ghosts, or to the souls of animals. For me these belonged to the realm of fairies, trolls, and other mythical beings.
- Much of the world does not make this mistake  
- There is a degree of hubris in thinking that we understand things correctly.

## C.S. Lewis
- “There are two equal and opposite errors into which our race can fall about the devils. One is to be disbelieve in their existence, and the other is to believe, and to feel an excessive and unhealthy interest in them” - The Screwtape Letters
- Everything that is happening in our lives is happening on 2 levels  
	- Physical (naturalistic)  
	- Spiritual (supernatural)  
- Demon or psychological?

# Our Spiritual "co-creations"
1. Angles
2. Demons

## Angles and Demons
- Scripture is written to us, not the angels.  
- So, there is much we do not know (and perhaps do not need to know)  
- They play a role in God’s redemptive activities, (key moments in redemption) but from our perspective a minor role.

## The Nature of Angels
- They are created beings – Ps. 148:2, 5.  
	- They have great power and wisdom, but not as great as God’s (neither omnipotent or omniscient)  
		- 2 Sam. 14:20; Ps. 103:20; Mt. 24:36; 2 Pet.  2:11.
	- They are not divine; God is superior to them – Ps. 89:6.
	- They are not to be worshiped – Col. 2:18; Rev. 22:8-9.
	- Christ is superior to them, and they worship him – Heb. 1:5-2:9.  
	- Human beings are made “a little lower than the angels” – Ps. 8:4-6.  
	- In some way, believers will judge angels – 1 Cor. 6:23.
- They are personal beings, who can be interacted with (like us).
	- They have will and reason and act as moral agents (judged) – 2 Sam. 14:17; 1 Pet. 1:12.  
	- Two are named in Scripture: Michael (Dan. 12:1); Gabriel (Dan. 8:16; Luke 1:26).  
	- Seem to have self-consciousness (refer to self as “I”)
- They are spiritual (nonmaterial) beings (like God) Heb. 1:14.
	- In substance, angels are personal spirits who normally do not appear in bodily form, but on occasion do. (Heb. 1.14)
- Angels seem to be able to learn.
	- Their knowledge can be dependent on unfolding events involving salvation and the church (cf. Eph. 3:10–11 and 1 Pet. 1:10–12)
- They are immortal beings – Luke 20:36.  
- They are holy beings – Mark 8:38.  
- There are a significant number of them – Matt. 26:53; Rev. 5:11.  
- The angel of Yahweh serves as the supreme agent of God in the OT (Gen. 16:7, 9; 22:11, 15; Ex. 3:2).

## Activities of Angels
- Praise and worship God – Is. 6:1-8.  
- Deliver God’s messages to the prophets – Ezek. 40:3; Dan. 7:6.
- Active in the ministry of Jesus, announcing his conception (Luke 1:26-38); announcing his birth (Luke 2:13-15); ministering to him after the temptation (Mark 1:13) and at Gethsemane (Luke 22:43); announcing his resurrection (Mt. 28:5-7).
- Minister to God’s people – Ex. 23:20-23; 2 Kings 6:17; Heb. 1:14.
- Execute God’s judgments on human beings – 2 Kings 19:35; 1 Cor. 10:10; Rev. 7:6-9:21. 
- They will be involved in the second coming and final judgment – Matt. 13:39; 25:31; Mark 13:27.

## Nature of Demons
- They are fallen angels – 2 Pet. 2:4; Jude 6; Rev. 12:7-9.
- Satan is the name given to the chief of the demons – Job. 1:6; Mark 3:22-27; Luke 10:18; 22:31.
- They actively work against God’s purposes in the world – Eph. 6:12. 
- They are involved in tempting and accusing human beings – Zech. 3:1-2; Luke 4:1-13; 22:31; 2 Cor. 11:19; 1 Tim. 4:1-2; 1 Pet. 5:8.  
- They sometimes influence or directly possess human beings – Mt. 8:16; 12:43-45; Mark 9:17-29.
- They are under judgment – John 12:31; 16:11.
- Their power is limited, and they will ultimately be defeated – Mt. 25:41; Luke 10:18; Rom. 8:37- 39; 2 Pet. 2:4; Rev. 20:7-15.  
- Satan presently holds sway over the world, outside the church (John 12:31; 1 Cor. 5:5; 1 John 5:19).

## The Devil
- A 2009 survey conducted by the Barna Group found that 40 percent of the Christians surveyed strongly agreed with the statement that the Devil “is not a living being but is a symbol of evil.”  
- An 20 % of Christians surveyed said that they “somewhat agree” that the Devil isn’t a literal being. 
- Another 8 % said they weren’t sure.
- “The trouble with the Devil is that we see him in the faces of those we hate, justifying our violence toward them.”
	- Beck, Richard. Reviving Old Scratch: Demons and the Devil for Doubters and the Disenchanted (Kindle Location 139). Fortress Press. Kindle Edition.

## Myths Regarding Demons (Kraft)
- Christians can’t be demonized  
	- Body, mind, emotions, and will (not spirit)  
- People are possessed by demons  
	- People have demons  
- Deliverance entails a big fight  
	- Rats and garbage  
- Demonization is essentially psychological illness.
- Those with demons are guilty of spiritual rebellion.  
- Problems are either demonic or emotional  
- All emotional problems are caused by demons  
- Only those with special gifting can cast out demons  
- Demonization is not common in the US  
- Demonized speak in different voices.

## A Christian Response to Demons
- Avoid involvement in the demonic – 1 Cor. 10:20-21.  
- Be prepared for, and resist, the attacks of Satan – Jas. 4:7.  
- Be aware of, and prepared for, spiritual warfare – Eph. 6:10-18.  
- Do not fear them, because the power of Christ in us is greater than any power of demons (1 John 4:4) and the Holy Spirit is stronger than any demonic being.
- D-Day (Oscar Cullmann)
- Spectrum of demonization (Chuck Kraft)