## Takeaways from Chapter 5:
1. "The whole of the cybersecurity technology landscape adds up to less than the sum of its parts." We are far from achieving a single coherent 'orchestra' in the cybersecurity field.
2. Sounil Yu's matrix decoupling and "platform epiphany" was pitched to Tanium. They raised another $200 million, but the trouble is that even "800 million in venture funding is not enough to build out all the capabilities on Sounil's matrix."
3. "The idea of building in security, i.e. making products secure from the start rather than bolting security on after products are built, has long built championed by the security community." Essentially, it is silicon valley's fault that the state of current cybersecurity is bad; their mantra "Move fast and break things" has lead to security becoming a second thought.
4. "Cybersecurity, along with other IT and biotech in general, attracts venture-capital (VC) money like bears to honey. Indeed, most applied cybersecurity research is funded by VC investors hoping to back the next unicorn on its run from start-up to billion-dollar valuation on the stock market."
5. Many firms, meaning many of the three thousand discussed here, should rationally not be an independent firm. They offer a feature, that would normally be rolled into larger companies, but VCs are forcing whatever firm they have poured their money into to grow into billion-dollar unicorns that prevent this type of realistic consolidation.
## Takeaways from Chapter 6:
1. The original DDoS attacks resulted in banks asking the American Government to get involved. They asked the US to "block this traffic" and as helpful as that sounds, for legal reasons the US did not block the traffic. "While blocking sounds appealing, the reality is that the United States has open borders in cyberspace."
2. China has a Great Firewall, "A vast system of traffic inspection and interception deployed at the borders of China's internet and throughout the country." However, this is more in place for censorship and surveillance as opposed to security. 
3. Ever since the US decided to response in a less aggressive way to the Iran DDoS attacks they "have worked to get out of the business of running the internet, turning over operation of the backbone to commercial providers."
4. Many in the political right believe that cybersecurity falls into the part of National Security, meaning that is it the Government's number 1 responsibility. Some believe that the private companies are not truly incentivized.
5. The final takeaway is that the benefits of the Internet far outweigh the greater cybersecurity risks. As appealing as it would be for the US government to fully take control the costs and consequences of an expanded government role would be far worse.