1) Director Steven Soderbergh took two prototype Red Ones digital cameras into the jungle to shoot _Che_ (2008). After that, the Red camera will become iconic, and many prominent filmmakers will start using it. Did you notice any difference, at a visual level (color, visual composition, and so on), between this film and the others we saw over the semester, which were primarily shot in celluloid? What do we make of the film being so technologically advanced but reconstructing events a few decades ago?  How does this technology contradict the stereotype that accompanies Latin America as a backward industry?

2) To what genre does _Che_ belong? Is this a conventional biopic? A war film that shows the technicalities of the military expedition in great detail?  Why does Soderbergh does not tell us the events in chronological order, but proceeds through an elliptical and convulsive editing? Why does he alternate color and black and white (see for example the United Nation trip in 1964)? Is there any original footage in the film, or is everything reconstructed in this kaleidoscopic view of the Cuban Revolution? What is the difference between this approach to history and that of Pablo Larrain in _No_?

3) Why does an American indie director shoot a four-hour epic on a revolutionary icon and a socialist leader like Ernesto Guevara? Think that _The Motorcycle Diaries_ was produced by Robert Redford, a US actor and alternative star rooted in the so-called New Hollywood. It looks like North America is cinematically obsessed with Che Guevara. Conversely, Latin American directors who shot about him in the past (see the famous sequence dedicated to Che in 1968 _The Hour of the Furnaces_) are creating more intimate and personal films these days. Why do you think this is happening? 
	1) Man of the people
	2) Interesting cultural background, but with his medical background he is useful and caring about his people

5) In _The Motorcycle Diaries, w_hat happened to Che after the trip is compressed into brief intertitles that appear for a few seconds on the screen, through which we learn that the protagonist became “one of the few influential and charismatic leaders of the Cuban Revolution. Ernesto Che Guevara fought for his ideals in Congo and Bolivia, where he was captured by the Regulation Army and, with the consent of the CIA, was assassinated in October of 1967.”  These final intertitles almost appear out of place, in contrast with what we have just seen. It would be easier for “people who don’t even know who Che Guevara is” to imagine the compassionate protagonist engaging in missionary work or non-governmental activities, rather than in guerrilla actions and executions. Did Bernal then deliver a reductive view of the man, a one-side take with slight shading? In stressing Che’s positives, did he make the portrayal of one of the most important leaders of the past century less attractive? Is Guevara reduced to an overpowering inspirational speaker while ignoring the man of massive contradictions? If this is the case, why is the television series Fidel, in which Bernal appears in the same role with the quasi-mandatory beret and preposterous beard that critics loudly demanded, equally uninsightful? Why does Soderbergh’s four-hour _Che_, focused on the Cuban and Bolivian military campaigns, result in an almost impersonal portrayal of the protagonist (played by the more physical Benicio Del Toro) that left global audiences indifferent? Which version of Che is more convincing to you, the young one or the guerrilla one? Or, as I am suggesting here, should we put the two of them together in an ideal sequence to understand who Guevara was? The representation of Che remains an intrinsically complicated issue that opens many different aspects, and Bernal’s consecration as the leading man of the New Latin American Cinema was a decisive step into the capitalist commercialization of a political myth that continues in Soderbergh's film. 

[Previous](https://messiah.instructure.com/courses/2000957/modules/items/38211247)[Next](https://messiah.instructure.com/courses/2000957/modules/items/38211249)