# Port Management
- What? 
	- Make it impossible for someone else (hacker) to plug in and have access
- Why?
- When?
	- Customers, strangers, etc.

- 802.1x - requires authorization
- Turn off the port

- Assumptions

# Game List - MAC Filtering
- The first half of the MAC address is vendor specific
- A new .xml is generate daily that holds all vendor's MAC addresses 

# Switch Hardening
- Console Ports
- Spanning Ports
- Management Access
	- What are the ways we could limit the switch being managed by someone else?
		- Physical security - lock it in another room.
		- Key-card access
	- Camera in front of it 
	- Change default password
	- Change default username
- Where can people log in?
- Don't forget the physical

# 2600 Hz
- The hacker quarterly - magazine
- Cap'n Crunch whistle
- This frequency would turn phones into technician mode, make unlimited free calls
- Solved:
	- Introduced '**Out of Band Management**'
		- Only administrators are on, no path to get from public to the network

# Switches and Routers
## Switches
- Everyone is on one network
- Operate at layer 
	- Uses MAC Address
- Largely Independent

## Routers
- Connects between networks (gateways)
- Operate at layer 3
	- Uses IP Address
- Collaborates to find the best route

# Router Configuration File
- Keep integrity 
- Back up the Config File
- How would you protect this?
	- Physical access?
	- Who knows the passwords?
		- Not default
		- Not simple passwords
	- Any unused but open ports?
	- How many users?
	- Where is the config backup?
		- Store it multiple times
		- Offline
	- Encrypted backups