# The Defender's Primary Advantage
- Homefield
	- Defender is more familiar with their own system 
- This mirrors the attackers reconnaissance step

## NSA Secure Network Plan
- It did not come down from Mt. Sinai
- Short (39 pages)
- Action oriented
- Structured
- Gives you something to aim at
- Does not tell you how to do things
	- If you can automate things, do so
- You get out what you put into to these 
Criticism:
- Not mission focused enough
	- Focuses on the tech, computer and network
	- It doesn't help you understand how the technology touches the organization
- Add questions: how does this support the mission of the organization

### Network Management Plan Process
#### 1. Prepare to Document
- Do you have a way to document the information about your network?
	- Where do I actually store the results?
- Are you currently documenting changes to your network?

#### 2. Map Your Network
- Do you have an accurate network map
- Do you have a current accurate list of ALL devices on your network (or that ever connected to your network), that records host name, role, MAC address, service tag, physical location, OS/firmware and responsible person/group?
	- Total number of devices on your network broken down by category (workstation/service/supporting/infrastructure/mobile/removable media)?
	- How often is this list checked by accuracy using discovery tools?
- Do you have an accurate list of ALL products that are running on your network?
- Are you updating your network map and list of devices and protocols whenever a change is made on your network?
	- When there is a change, how long before this documentation is updated?

#### 3. Protect Your network (Network Architecture)
- Have you identified and documented your current network enclaves?
- Have you identified and documented the current high-value assets and choke points on your network?
- Are you updating your documentation whenever your network enclaves, high-value assets or choke points change?
	- When there is a change, how long before this documentation is updated?
- Are you periodically re-evaluating your network architecture to make sure it most effectively protects your high-value assets, limits access to sensitive information and keeps damage contained?
	- How often are these re-evaluations done?
	- How often do you review your network trust relationships?
	- If a trust relationships is found that can be eliminated or limited, howe long before this eliminations / limiting is actually done?
Note: The new things, is Zero Trust Architecture, treat everyone as if they were to be zoned individually

#### 4. Reach Your Network (Device Accessibility)
- Have you established and documented a process to properly, easily, and securely access and administer EVERY device on your network (workstations, servers, supporting devices, infrastructure devices, and mobile devices)
- Are you updating your device administration process and documentation as necessary

#### 5. Control Your Network (User Access)
- How you established non-privileged user accounts for all users on your network?
	- % total users on your network that are allowed to use only non-privileged accounts? (Higher % is more secure)
- For all users with elevated privileges, have you documented the privileges given and the reasons for giving those privileges and are those reasons reviewed regularly
	- How often are the reasons for giving those privileges reviewed?
	- If the reasons are no longer valid or justifiable, how long before those privileges are actually removed?
	- % if elevated privilege accounts that do NOT have access to the internet or email (Higher % is more secure)
- Are you periodically verifying that all accounts on your network are tied to specific, current authorized users?
	- How often are the verifications done?
	- If an account is found that cannot be verified, hoe long before the account is disabled?
	- If a user becomes unauthorized (terminated) how long before the account(s) are actually disabled?

#### 6. Manage Your Network I (Patch Management)
- Have your established and documented a patch management process for ALL the OS and application software on EVERY device on your network (workstations, servers, supporting devices, infrastructure devices, and mobile devices)
	- Within each category, % of devices actually patched via this process?
	- Within each category, % of devices that are assessed by an automatic capability that they are adequacy.....

#### 7. Manage Your Network II (Baseline Management)
- How you created and documented a list of all the applications that are approved for use on your network?
	- Within each device category, % of devices that have an automated capability to prevent or restrict execution of unapproved applications and other executable content 
- How you established and documented the criteria and process for getting an application on the approved list?
- Have you created and documented device baselines (including for infrastructure devices and mobile devices)?
	- Within each category, % of devices actually covered by a document baseline
	- Within each category, % of devices that are compliant with their baseline
	- Within each category, % of devices that have an automated capability to verify compliance
- Are you updating your device baselines on a regular basis?
- Are you updating your approved application list, criteria, and process for getting an application on the approved list, and baseline documentation whenever there is a change?
Note: This is assuming you WANT to control all devices on your network, the 'Bring your own device' concept does not allow for this. You can't fully control person devices

#### 8. Document Your Network
- Are the procedures to rebuild servers and other important devices on your network fully documented and kept up to date?
- Are the procedures for adding and removing users and systems from your network fully documented and kept up to date?
- As time permits, are you documenting all other administrative processes and procedures, and keeping them up to date?
