# Tango
- born into the slums of Rio da la Plata 
	- An area famous for immigration
	- Musicians from Africa, Germany, Latin America started jamming together
- Accordion type instrument called: Bandoneon
- Became popular in Paris, spread from there

- Astor Piazzolla - Libertango (1977)

# Practice of Adopting the Kids of Disappeared

# Kamchatka
- A great reconstruction of the late 1970s
- Lots of screen within screen shots

- Father cannot explain the entire political situation to his son, so instead he just repeats the mantra "We can't"
- Tone shift when the father can't explain why
- Scene ends out of focus and camera is looking onto the water
- Meta-cinematic scene with POV through the camera

--- Questions ---
- What do these minutes reveal about the father-son relationship in _Kamchatka_? 
	- Very trusting, Harry is satisfied with the "We can't" answer 
	- The father wants to explain everything but can't
- What is the symbolic role of water here and in the rest of the film?
	- Water is symbolic for how the disappear were killed, Harry takes a picture instead of his father. Almost foreshadowing his father might disappear
- How does this sequence raise issues of visibility vs. invisibility, and how do we relate these to the history of the "disappeared" in Argentina?
	- Father starts in the frame of a camera, symbolic for the first half of the camera. Then he turns away and he is no longer in his life. His father wants Harry to remember him. His father returns to the frame and the sequence ends with he father out of frame
	- He wants his memory to be impressed into Harry
- In what ways is this sequence meta-cinematic? 
	- POV is through a camera, frame in frame, only use of 1st person perspective 
	- 4th wall break, camera reacts to the conversation
	- Very multi-layered while still simple to the audience 
- Why does Harry move the camera away from his dad and start looking at his hand and the lake? 
	- He is satisfied with his father's answer 
- What do we make of those moments when the images go out of focus?
	- He doesn't see the whole picture or understand the whole truth
- What is the role of photography and the purpose of breaking the 4th wall?
	- Emphasis on the importance of the sequence to grab the audiences attention. Horse blinders to isolate just his father's face
- Ricardo Darín reveals his talent when he shifts his mood halfway through the sequence, and his "we can't" becomes a mantra of despair. How do you evaluate his performance as an actor?
	- His acting is very authentic and a playful fear during the first response to his son's questioning, than a shift to fear fear in his voice. He wants to save harry from their situation