# Mexico / US wall
- Construction began in 1994 during the Clinton administration and continued since then
- Goal: Contain drug trafficking and illegal immigration

- October 2006
	- Secure Fence Act
	- 12 Fence designs
	- 19 constructions companies
	- 250 engineers
	- 7,000 workers

- 10,000 people died between 1994-2020 trying to cross the wall

# Opening Sequences of Kamchatka & Sleep Dealer 
You may have noticed the similarities between the opening sequences of _Kamchatka_ and _Sleep Dealer._ Why do both movies use montage techniques (fast-paced edited images and free visual associations)? What is the overall effect of having a prologue (or an introductory sequence) to a full-feature film? What is the role of the voiceover? What is the impact of watching them retrospectively, and how do they increase self-reflexivity? What do we make of these sequences' liquid, dream-like visual quality? How do they unfold the theme of preserving memory for future generations? Why do they give away and spoil so many details about the plot (you can also notice that some of the images they present appear later in the films)?  Why are the body and various biological metaphors at the center of these sequences (the "intubated" workers in _Sleep Dealer_, virtually connected to the US, and the cells that spilled in _Kamchatka_, giving life to plants, animals, and humans)? How are these two montage sequences related to the rest of the movie to which they belong? How are they related to the themes and aesthetics of the so-called New Latin American Cinema of the 2000s that we are studying?

- The use of the montage sequence / prologue effectively sets the tone and preps the audience for the world building / set the tone
- Spoilers: Interesting to show direct clips in the prologue, cool to foreshadow so much in Sleep Dealer but basically spoil nothing in Kamchatka
- Both seem to emphasize preserving memories, protagonist wants to remember their father (Kamchatka) or remember their hometown (Sleep Dealer)
- Ironic, by spoiling clips for the audience, its a play on the theme of memory. By the end the audience remembers seeing the clips from the prologue
- By spoiling the movie, the audience has so many questions and is forced to watch till the ending. A good Hollywood movie is based on the good ending, good closure, a good twist. 
- Visuals: Water is very symbolic for Kamchatka, the watery dreamlike visuals on the prologue reflect this