# IP Addressing
In this section, you will learn to:

-   Configure IP addresses on a workstation
-   Configure IP addresses on an iPad
-   Configure IP addresses on mobile devices

The key terms for this section include:
|Term|Definition|
|-|-|
|Octet|An 8-bit binary number. An IPv4 address consists of four octets separated by a dot.
|Subnet mask|A 32-bit number that defines which portion of an IPv4 address identifies the network address and which portion of the address defines the host address.
|Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) |A nonprofit, private American corporation that oversees global IP address allocation, autonomous system number allocation, root zone management in the Domain Name System, media types, and other Internet Protocol-related symbols and internet numbers.
|Public IP|An IP address that is used to access the internet.
|Private IP|An IP address that is used only on an internal network. These IP addresses do not go out on the internet.
|Automatic Private IP Addressing (APIPA)|A feature that allows a device to automatically assign itself an IP address on the 169.254.0.0 network when a DHCP server or manual configuration is unavailable.
|Loopback address|This special address is also known as home or localhost. This address is reserved by each network interface card (NIC) and is used for testing purposes.  <br>Ping requests can be sent to this address and if returned means that the NIC is capable of sending and receiving data packets.
|Broadcast address|The last valid IP address on a network. It is reserved for broadcast functions. Any packet sent to this address will be sent to all devices on the network.
|Network address|The first valid IP address on the network. This address is used for routing purposes to identify the network.
|Subnetting|The process of dividing a large network into smaller networks.
|Fixed-length subnet mask (FLSM)|Subnetting method in which each created subnet has an equal number of addresses.
|Variable-length subnet mask (VLSM)|Subnetting method in which each subnet can be a different size.
|Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)|A method for allocating IP addresses and for IP routing. CIDR notation is a simplified method of writing a network address with a slash followed by the number of bits in the network ID.
|ANDing|The process used to determine the network address/ID.
|Supernetting|The process of combining two or more networks.

# Numbering System Facts
- A numbering system is how we define or represent numbers. In networking, three numbering systems are used. Network technicians must be familiar with all three.

This lesson covers the following topics:

-   Decimal numbering system
-   Binary numbering system
-   Hexadecimal numbering system
-   Converting binary to decimal
-   Converting decimal to binary
-   Converting binary to hexadecimal
-   Converting hexadecimal to binary

## Decimal Numbering System
The decimal numbering system is the most used number system across the world. Decimal comes from the Latin root word decim, which means ten. The decimal numbering systems consists of ten digits, 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9.

This is known as a base-10 numbering system. This means that every place in a number is a power of ten. For example:

-   In the number 6,789, each place is a power of 10.
-   This is the equivalent of (6 x 10 3) + (7 x 10 2) + (8 x 10 1) + (9 x 10 0) = 6,000 + 700 + 80 + 9 = 6,789

All decimal numbers can be calculated using powers of ten to generate larger numbers.

## Binary Numbering System
- Binary is the number system that computers and most electronic systems use. Because these systems work using electricity, there are only two states, on and off. This is represented using the numbers 1 and 0. Binary is considered a base-2 number system because only two numbers are used.

> Each 1 or 0 is referred to as a bit.

Because binary is a base-2 number system, binary numbers are expressed in terms of powers of two. Powers of 2 are calculated by multiplying 2 by itself the number of times as the power:

-   2 0 = 1 (anything to the power of 0 will always equal 1)
-   2 1 = 2 (2 x 1 = 2)
-   2 2 = 4 (2 x 2 = 4)
-   2 3 = 8 (2 x 2 x 2 = 8)
-   2 4 = 16 (2 x 2 x 2 x 2 = 16)
-   2 5 = 32 (2 x 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 = 32)
-   2 6 = 64 (2 x 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 = 64)
-   2 7 = 128 (2 x 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 = 128)

These decimal values represent the number of possible combinations of 1's and 0's. For example, 2 2 has 4 possible combinations of 1 and 0:

-   00
-   01
-   10
-   11

In networking, 8-bit binary numbers are used most often. It is a good idea to memorize the first 8 powers of 2 as show in the following table:
|2^7|2^6|2^5|2^4|2^3|2^2|2^1|2^0|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|128|64|32|16|8|4|2|1
Memorizing these powers of 2 will make it easy to convert between and binary and decimal.

## Hexadecimal Numbering System
The word hexadecimal is a combination of the Latin prefix hex for 6 and decim for 10. There are 16 values in this numbering system, making it a base-16 numbering system. Hexadecimal numbering system consists of the decimal numbers 0-9 and letters to represent values 10-15.

-   A = 10
-   B = 11
-   C = 12
-   D = 13
-   E = 14
-   F = 15

A hexadecimal value combines letters and numbers to simplify or shorten longer binary numbers. Each hexadecimal value is equal to four bits; this is known as a _nibble._

## Converting Binary to Decimal
To convert binary to decimal, follow the below steps:

-   Line up the binary value is with the powers of 2.
-   Bring down the matching decimal value for each 1 in the binary value.
-   Ignore any 0.
-   Add the decimal values together.

In the below example, the binary string is on top and the first 8 powers of 2 are below.
|1|1|0|0|0|1|1|0|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|128|64|32|16|8|4|2|1

## Converting Decimal to Binary
Converting a decimal value into binary involves subtracting the highest power of 2 from the decimal value until 0 is reached. For every power of 2 that can be subtracted, a 1 is put in that place. For example, to convert 241 into binary:

-   Can 128 be subtracted from 241? YES (241 - 128 = 113)  
    A 1 is put in the first position starting on the left.
-   Can 64 be subtracted from 113? YES (113 - 64 = 49)  
    A 1 is put in the next position.
-   Can 32 be subtracted from 49? YES (49-32 = 17)  
    A 1 is put in the next position.
-   Can 16 be subtracted from 17? YES (17-16 = 1)  
    A 1 is put in the next position.
-   Can 8 be subtracted from 1? NO  
    A 0 is put in the next position.
-   Can 4 be subtracted from 1? NO  
    A 0 is put in the next position.
-   Can 2 be subtracted from 1? NO  
    A 0 is put in the next position.
-   Can 1 be subtracted from 1? YES (1-1=0)  
    A 1 is put in the last position.

Based on the subtraction of each value, the binary equivalent of 241 is 11110001


## Converting Binary to Hexadecimal
When converting binary to hexadecimal, the first step is to break the binary string into 4-bit sections (nibbles). Then convert the nibbles. For example, to convert the binary string 11000111:

-   Split the string into two nibbles.
    -   1100
    -   0111
-   Solve for each nibble using the first four values starting from the right on the binary to decimal conversion chart.
    -   1100 = 12
    -   0111 = 7
-   If either value falls between 10 - 15, replace that with the corresponding letter.
    -   12 --> C
-   Combine the two values in the proper order to get the hexadecimal value.
    -   11000111 = C7

## Converting Hexadecimal to Binary
Converting hexadecimal to binary is the same process as converting decimal to binary. The only difference is any letter must be converted to it's decimal equivalent first. Each decimal value is then converted to the 4-bit binary value.

For example, to convert DF into binary:

-   Convert each letter to its decimal value.
    -   D = 13
    -   F = 15
-   Convert each decimal to binary:
    -   13 = 1101
    -   15 = 1111
-   Combine the binary strings in the proper order to get the binary conversion.
    -   DF = 11011111


# IP Address Facts
Most networks today use the Internet Protocol (IP) for communication. Each device on an IP network must have a unique identifier called an IP address. This is a Layer 3 logical address that identifies and locates each device. There are two formats of IP addresses, IP version 4 (IPv4) and IP version 6 (IPv6). This lesson focuses on IPv4.

# IPv4 Address Facts
An IPv4 address consists of 4 decimal numbers separated by a dot. Each place in the address is known as an _octet_ because it consists of an 8-bit value (a grouping of eight 1's or 0's).

IPv4 addresses can be represented two ways:

-   Decimal (e.g., 131.107.2.200). In decimal notation, each octet must be between 0 and 255. This the most common method of writing IPv4 addresses.
-   Binary (e.g., 10000011.01101011.00000010.11001000). In binary notation, each octet is an 8-character number.

## Subnet Masks
In an IP address, a _subnet mask_ is a 32-bit number that identifies the network portion from the host portion of the IPv4 address. In binary form, the subnet mask is always a series of 1s followed by a series of 0s (1s and 0s are never mixed in sequence in the mask). A simple mask might be 255.255.255.0 (11111111.11111111.11111111.00000000). In the subnet mask:

-   The 1's identify the network ID.
-   The 0's identify the host ID.

The network ID stays the same for all IP addresses in the network and the host ID changes for each IP address.  

-   For example, in the IP address 192.168.5.42 with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0:
    -   The network ID is 192.168.5.0
    -   The host ID is .42.

## IPv4 Address Classes

IP addresses have a default class. The address class identifies the range of IP addresses and the default subnet mask used for the range. The following table shows the default address class for each IP address range:
|Class|Address Range|First Octect Range (Binary)|Subnet Mask|Number of Addresses|Private Reserved IP Range|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|A|1.0.0.0 to 126.255.255.255|1–126<br>(00000001–01111110)|255.0.0.0|16,777,216<br>  (2^24)|10.0.0.1 – 10.255.255.255
|B|128.0.0.0 to<br> 191.255.255.255|128–191  (10000000–10111111)|255.255.0.0|65,536<br>(2^16)|172.16.0.0 – 172.32.255.255|
|C|192.0.0.0 to 223.255.255.255|192–223<br>(11000000–11011111)|255.255.255.0|256<br>(2^8)|192.168.0.0 – 192.168.255.255
|D|224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255|224–239<br>(11100000–11101111)|N/A|N/A|Used for multicast
|E|240.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255|240–255<br>(11110000–11111111)|N/A|N/A|Experimental/Research
Because IP addresses assigned to hosts must be unique, the use of IP addresses on the internet is controlled by organizations that ensure that every organization is given its own range of IP addresses to assign to hosts.

-   The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) manages the assignment of IP addresses on the internet. IANA is operated by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).
-   IANA allocates blocks of IP addresses to Regional Internet Registries (RIRs). An RIR has authority over IP addresses in a specific region of the world.
-   An RIR assigns blocks of addresses to Internet Service Providers (ISPs).
-   An ISP assigns one or more IP addresses to individual computers or organizations connecting to the internet.

Each IP class has a reserved range for private IP addresses. This is due to the following two factors:

-   Each IP address on any network, including the internet, must be unique.
-   There is a finite number of IP addresses using IPv4.

Public and private addresses work as follows:

-   Public IP addresses are those that are used on the internet. These are typically assigned by the ISP.
-   Private IP addresses are used only on internal networks and are not used on the internet.
    -   When a device on the internal network accesses the internet, that data traffic is sent using the public IP address of the network.
    -   Because private IP addresses are never used on the internet, users in one private network of a company can have the same IP addresses as users in the private network in another company.

## Special IPv4 Addresses
The following table describes special IP addresses network technicians must be aware of.
|IP Address /  Example|Description|
|-|-|
|Automatic Private IP Addressing (APIPA) 169.254.0.0|APIPA is a feature that allows a device to automatically assign itself an IP address on the 169.254.0.0 network when a DHCP server or manual configuration is unavailable.
|Loopback 127.0.0.1|This special address is also known as home or localhost. This address is reserved by each network interface card (NIC) and is used for testing purposes. Ping requests can be sent to this address and if returned indicates that the NIC is capable of sending and receiving data packets.
|Network -.-.-.0|The first valid IP address on the network is the network address. This address is used for routing purposes to identify the network. In this example, this is the network ID for a Class C subnet.
|Broadcast  -.-.-.255|The last valid IP address on a network is reserved for broadcast functions. Any packet sent to this address is sent to all devices on the network. In this example, this is the broadcast address for a Class C subnet.

## Subnet Facts
_Subnetting_ is the process of dividing a large network into smaller networks called subnets. When you subnet a network, each network segment has a different network address (subnet address). In practice, the terms network and subnet are used interchangeably to describe a physical network segment with a unique network address.

This lesson covers the following topics:

-   Subnetting
-   Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)
-   Variable-length subnet mask (VLSM)
-   Network address ANDing process
-   Supernetting

## Subnetting

Breaking a network into smaller networks (subnetting) provides some benefits including:

-   Increased security
-   Easier network management
-   Improved network performance
-   Separation of departments

To subnet a network, bits are borrowed from the host ID and added to the network ID in IP addressing.

For example, the following network needs to be subnetted into 7 smaller networks:
|Network ID|192.168.5.0|11000000.10101000.00000101.00000000|
|-|-|-|
|Subnet Mask|255.255.255.0|11111111.11111111.11111111.00000000
The first step is to determine how many bits are borrowed from the host portion by using the following formula:

> 2 x  
> x = number of bits borrowed

When bits are moved from the host ID to the network ID, the number of subnets is determined by the possible combinations of 1's and 0's of the borrowed bits. To create 7 subnets in the above network, 3 bits must be borrowed in order to create enough subnets to solve the problem. In this case it is 2 3 to give you 8 total subnets, enough to meet your needs.

-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 000 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.0)
-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 001 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.32)
-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 010 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.64)
-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 011 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.96)
-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 100 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.128)
-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 101 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.160)
-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 110 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.192)
-   11111111.11111111.11111111. 111 00000 (network ID 192.168.5.224)

In this example, the fourth octet is known as the interesting octet. The _interesting octet_ is the first octet whose subnet mask is not 255. It is the octet that bits are borrowed from and where the host ID starts.

When subnetting, the number of hosts per subnet is reduced. To calculate the number of hosts per subnet, use the following formula:

> 2 y - 2  
> y = number of bits in the host ID

Two addresses are subtracted because the first IP in each subnet is the reserved network address and the last IP is reserved for the broadcast address. In the above network, with the five 00000's, each subnet would have 2 5-2 number of hosts which equals 30.

The standard subnetting process like this is known as fixed-length subnet mask (FLSM). Using this method, each subnet has the same number of hosts. FLSM is typically used in private networks as it requires less configuration and administration.

## Classless Inter-Domain Routing
When subnets are created, the standard IP classes are no longer used. This is called Classless Inter-Domain Routing. To simplify writing the network address, you can use CIDR notation which is the network ID with a slash followed by the number of bits in the network ID.

The above network's CIDR notation is 192.168.5.0/27. This means 27 bits are used to identify the network and 5 bits identify the hosts, for a total of 32 bits.

## Variable-Length Subnet Mask (VLSM)
Using the VLSM method, you can create subnets of different sizes to reduce IP address waste. The first step is to create a table showing the different subnets and possible host addresses. For example:

|CIDR Notation|Hosts Per Subnet|
|-|-|
|/24|254
|/25|126
|/26|62
|/27|30
|/28|14
|/29|6
|/30|2
The second step is to list the needed subnets ranked from most addresses needed down to least number needed. Each subnet is then assigned the network address that will provide the needed addresses with minimal waste.

Keep in mind that for VLSM to work, the network must be using advanced routing protocols such as OSPF, BGP, and others. VLSM is typically used by ISP's and larger public networks as it requires complex configuration.

## Network Address and ANDing Process

When given a network IP address, you might have to determine the network, or subnet, it belongs to. This is done by using a process called ANDing. ANDing is done by multiplying each bit of the binary versions of the IP address and its subnet mask with each other and calculating the results. Each bit can have the following results:

-   0 and 0 = 0
-   1 and 0 = 0
-   0 and 1 = 0
-   1 and 1 = 1

The result of the ANDing process is the network ID that the IP address belongs to. The following table shows ANDing process for the IP address 172.16.77.54/21:
|Component|Value|
|-|-|
|IP address|**10101100.00010000.01001101.00110110**
|Subnet|**11111111.11111111.11111000.00000000**
|ANDing|**10101100.00010000.01001000.00000000**
After converting the ANDing results string into decimal, the network ID that the IP address belongs to is 172.16.72.0.

## Supernetting
When routers talk to each other, they share their routing tables. As networks become more complex, these routing tables can get quite large and complicated. Supernetting is the process of combining several subnets. This reduces the number of entries in a routing table.

Supernetting has many advantages including:

-   Reducing the size of routing tables.
-   Simplifying the network overview.
-   Decreasing CPU and RAM resources on the routers.
-   Improving network performance.

The main thing to keep in mind when supernetting is that the networks must be in sequence. If they are not in sequence, the networks cannot be combined.

# IP Address Assignment Facts
When a device connects to a network, it must have a unique IP address and be configured with IP information such as DNS server, default gateway, subnet mask, etc. Depending on the network configuration, there are several methods you can use to assign this IP information.

## Static Assignment

With static addressing, you manually configure IP information on each host. Static addressing is best used in the following situations:

-   Networks with a small number of hosts.
-   Networks that do not change devices often.
-   Devices that must always have the same address (e.g., servers, printers, and routers). You assign permanent IP addresses to these devices.

Static assignment works great in small networks, but poses some challenges such as:

-   Inefficiency - Manually assigning an address means that it is reserved, even if the device is not being used at that time.
-   Difficult to change - If a server, printer, router, or other device needs a new address, that address must be manually updated on every device that connects to it.

## DHCP Assignment

An administrator configures a DHCP server with the IP addressing information such as the IP addresses, DNS server, default gateway, subnet mask, etc. The DHCP server assigns the IP information to the clients based on that configuration. This ensures that each device is assigned a unique IP address.

-   When a DHCP client system boots, it contacts the DHCP server for IP configuration information. _Scopes_ are the range of IP addresses it can assign to hosts.
    -   The DHCP server can be configured to prevent specific addresses in the range from being assigned to clients. This is called an _exclusion_.
    -   The DHCP server can also be configured to deliver the same address to a specific host each time it requests an address. This is called a _reservation_.
-   The DHCP server can also be configured to assign other IP configuration information, such as the default gateway and DNS server addresses.
-   The DHCP server assigns the IP address and other information to the client. The assignment is called a _lease_, and includes a lease time that identifies how long the client can use the IP address.
    -   Periodically, the client contacts the DHCP server to renew the lease on the IP address. The client will also attempt to renew the lease on the same IP address if it reboots.
    -   The DHCP lease process uses broadcast frames at Layer 2. By default, DHCP requests, do not pass through routers to other subnets. To enable DHCP broadcasts between subnets, enable IP helper or DHCP relay on the appropriate routers.
    -   When the lease expires, the DHCP server releases the reserved IP address. This is known as the expired IP address.
-   Any client configured to use DHCP can get an IP address from any server configured for DHCP, regardless of its operating system.
