#AmericanPopMusic
[[3. Stephen Foster (1826 - 1864)]]
The first common form of musical and theatrical entertainment to be  
regarded as distinctively American was minstrelsy.  
Minstrelsy was a performance in which mostly white actors and  
musicians artificially darkened their skin and enacted parodies of  
African American culture, music, and dialect. Minstrelsy is a direct  
ancestor of Vaudeville, a more politically correct form of entertainment  
featuring slapstick humor and whimsical music.  
By today’s moral standards minstrelsy is quite reasonably considered to  
be despicable and demoralizing due to its thematic nature. Nonetheless  
it would be difficult, even impossible to understand the subsequent  
developments in the history of American popular music without  
knowledge of minstrelsy and its impact on popular songs. The earliest  
date of the minstrel show is unknown, but the height of its popularity  
was in the 1820’s through the 1840’s, with a declining popularity from  
the 1850’s through the 1870’s. An ironic transformation in the typical  
theme of the minstrel show began to transpire as working class whites  
and free blacks found themselves identifying more with the intended  
“underdogs” in the shows. By the 1860’s the common scene in a  
minstrel show was blackface white and ethnic black performers poking  
fun at affluent white society, and by the 1880’s, for all intents and  
purposes, minstrelsy was extinct. If any redemptive factor was to come  
from minstrelsy at all was that it introduced and implanted the sounds  
of African American song in the ears and hearts of Americans at large.  
However, the majority of the music was the white man’s assimilation of  
African American music. This opened the doors for the popularization  
of authentic black music, which is arguably the most influential of all  
streams of popular music even to this day.

Some important figures in minstrelsy are:  
George Washington Dixon (?- 1861) George Washington Dixon was the  
first actor to establish a widespread reputation as a blackface  
performer. He made his New York City debut in 1829.  
  
  
Thomas Dartmouth Rice (1808-1860)  
T.D. “Daddy” Rice was the most famous of all the blackface  
performers.He developed the character Jim Crow, portrayed satirically  
as the stereotypical African American man.  
  
  
The Virginia Minstrels  
The Virginia Minstrels were a highly developed traveling minstrel  
troupe who established the model for the minstrel show. Their  
performances standardized the stage logistics, common  
protagonist/antagonist and supporting characters, and the roles of the  
narrator and “pit” musicians.