#AmericanPopMusic
[[5. Ragtime]]
Popular music and popular culture have always gone hand in hand, and  
the Civil War and post-Civil War eras are no different. For those of us  
born and raised after World War II, pop culture has been somewhat  
synonymous with counter culture as Rock and Roll and its successors  
celebrate personal independence and even rebellion at times. Our  
music tends to attempt to challenge and debunk the ideologies of our  
parents and older, more conservative generations.  

In the case of the Civil War era and subsequent decades pop culture  
tended to affirm the “system” and patriotism/nationalism were  
unifying cultural attitudes. Virtually every boy and young American  
man’s fantasy was to be a heroic soldier and young women dreamed of  
being the supportive wives cheering them on while maintaining their  
homes. The supporting soundtrack for this demographic was brass  
band music which featured military marches, triumphant fanfares and  
conservative dance music.  

A surplus of marching band instruments after the Civil War made it  
feasible for many folks to take up an instrument, and there was plenty  
of opportunity for accomplished musicians to find work. Brass bands  
existed in the form of military bands, business bands (bands who were  
not connected to government institutions, and they often represented  
a company or business. These groups were frequently made up of  
business leaders and their staff, Italian concert bands led by charismatic  
conductors, and last but not least, community Bands.  

Community bands consist of professional and amateur musicians from  
their given communities and to this day are a tradition that is  
representative of small town America. These bands are an important  
element in creating and sustaining a sense of belonging and purpose, at  
least in the musical sense, for town residents. Their music can be heard
at holiday events, parades, county fairs and just about any event of  
significance to the folks of a given community. If one endeavored to  
research an individual band’s history, you would most likely find that its  
lineage spans generations, perhaps even dating back to the Civil War.  
  
### John Phillip Sousa (1854-1932)  
Known as the “March King”, bandleader John Phillip Sousa enjoyed rock  
star status in his day. He formed the first commercial concert band, and  
wrote and recorded numerous brass band hits including;  
“The Stars and Stripes Forever”  
“In the Good Old Summertime”  
“El Capitan”  
Sousa was the inventor, or at least the  
conceptualizer of the sousaphone, a tuba that  
could be played while marching. For most  
people today the common perception of a tuba  
is actually a sousaphone.  