#AmericanPopMusic 
Another highly popular style, more radical than brass band music, was  
ragtime. Ragtime, which emerged in the 1880’s, experienced a heyday  
between 1896 and 1918, and is an example of the intensification of  
African American musical styles on the American popular music scene.  
The word ragtime comes from the term, to “rag something up” or make  
it “ragged” sounding. This enlivening effect was obtained by shifting the  
melodic accents onto the off beats in a measure, a technique referred  
to as syncopation. Playing “against the beat” actually creates a sense of  
rhythmic momentum, and this catchy quality propelled ragtime into the  
limelight of popular music.  

By the turn of the century ragtime was being played by every  
imaginable type of musical ensemble: brass bands, dance bands,  
country string bands, symphony orchestras, banjo and mandolin  
ensembles and by that which the genre is most often associated with  
solo pianists.

The best known of all of the ragtime composers  
was an African American pianist named Scott  
Joplin (1868-1917). Joplin was a traditionally  
trained pianist who brilliantly assimilated ragtime  
music to the piano with sophisticated  
compositions that followed the standard forms of  
classical piano music.

Scott Joplin began his career as a pianist who improvised on common  
popular repertoire, and between 1895 and 1915 composed many of the  
classics of the ragtime idiom, as well as arranging existing marches and  
other popular tunes for the piano in the ragtime style.

Joplin’s music was disseminated in sheet music and rolls for player  
pianos. Player pianos were elaborate mechanical devices activated by  
piano rolls----spools of paper with punched holes that controlled the  
movement of the piano keys. The player piano operated on the same  
principal as the music box.  

Scott Joplin’s first major success was “Maple Leaf Rag” (1898), named  
after the Maple Leaf social club in Sedalia Missouri, where he  
frequently gigged. As stated earlier, many of the rags that are  
considered today to be classics were Joplin compositions, including  
“The Entertainer” (1902) which perpetuated a ragtime revival in the  
1970’s as the theme song for the Oscar winning film “The Sting” (1973)  

It was the wish of Joplin to be designated as a composer of classical  
music, and his compositions certainly do reflect his affection for  
classical music. Nonetheless, history would accurately depict Scott  
Joplin to be the greatest ragtime composer of all time, and the first  
celebrated African American composer.

### The Phonograph
Prior to the 1880’s the primary method of disseminating music to the  
public was sheet music, printed scores of the songs notated for various  
instruments and vocal ranges. Thomas Edison, the greatest American  
inventor of his time, created a device in 1877 that transformed the  
energy from sound waves into physical impressions onto a foil or wax  
coated cylinder which could reproduce the original sounds. Edison’s  
“talking machine” would become known as the phonograph. Within  
the next two decades developments in recording sounds sky-rocketed.  
In 1887 flat gramophone discs (later known as records) would become  
the standard medium for recorded music. The phonograph had many
incarnations such as the Victrola, record player, and turntable to name  
a few. In the 1890’s the first nickelodeons emerged. Nickelodeons  
were machines that businesses purchased for their stores, eateries, and  
saloons. They were stocked with records and listeners could play their  
favorite tunes for a nickel. Nickelodeons were later called jukeboxes, a  
term which is still used for our present day digital public music making  
machines.

The record business had become the most lucrative facet of the  
entertainment industry, making hundreds of thousands of dollars and  
eventually millions and billions to the present day. By the turn of the  
century the record industry was dominated by two powerhouse  
companies, Columbia Records (1887) and the Victor Talking Machine  
Company (1901).
