#AmericanPopMusic [[7. Tin Pan Alley]]
Jazz music is one of America’s truly original art forms and it is a style of  
music that has evolved in sophistication since its beginnings and  
continues to evolve today. As of the present day, there is a broad  
spectrum of musical styles that fall under the designation of jazz, some  
of which sound nothing at all alike. Take a moment and ponder what  
you think jazz is, the instruments you associate with it, and the  
musicians playing it. Some folks may think of New Orleans style  
Dixieland. Others may imagine the Big Band era and the music of Benny  
Goodman and Count Basie. Perhaps one may think of the music of  
Kenny G and Chris Botti, a contemporary form of instrumental pop  
music known as “smooth” jazz. While others may think of the music of  
Miles Davis and John Coltrane, music which most enthusiasts and many  
jazz musicians regard as “true” jazz or “real” jazz.  

All of these styles and more fall under the commercial umbrella of jazz  
and although they may sound distinctly different, all of the music that is  
considered to be jazz has one common thread-improvisation. (The art  
of improvisation will be discussed in class.) Although it is incredibly  
tempting for me as a jazz musician to expound on jazz as art music, we  
will focus on jazz as popular music for the goals and purposes of this  
class. Therefore, one should be aware that there are many types of jazz  
that cannot be designated as popular music including: be-bop, cool jazz,  
modal jazz, progressive jazz and free-form jazz to name a few. The  
earliest forms of jazz were not recorded, and its beginnings are in part  
speculated. However, we know that jazz music emerged in New Orleans  
around the turn of the twentieth century. New Orleans was the perfect  
environment for a new creative art form to be born, nurtured, and  
developed. The rich cultural diversity and absence of racially divisive  
attitudes created a hotbed of artistic and cultural amalgamation.

Blues, church music, French and other European folk and art songs,  
classical music, and African American folk music blended together to  
make sounds unlike anything else in America, or for that matter, the  
world at that time.  

As stated in the section on brass band music, marching band  
instruments were easy to acquire at that time; the party-like  
atmosphere of New Orleans invited anyone with an instrument to join  
in. Live music was being played in every storefront, every church, and  
literally on every street corner. The porches and stoops of homes  
featured their inhabitants trying their hand at playing the trumpet,  
trombone, banjo etc. Most importantly, live music, regardless of a  
musician’s skill level, was integral to the lifestyle of the community.  
Even today, as was the case then, beginners and amateurs have been  
embraced by accomplished professional musicians and are invited to  
join in on the jam session.  

Now that we have a picture of the setting, we will take a general look at  
the musical conditions that perpetuated the advent of jazz music. Two  
of the predominant styles of popular music at the time were brass band  
music and Ragtime. In order to appease dancers and party goers brass  
bands began to improvise rag-like variations on existing repertoire. The  
result may or may not have been musically credible at first, but the light  
atmosphere was not artistically critical, and this general sense of  
acceptance and forgiveness allowed the music to blossom and evolve  
with without inhibition. By the time of World War I (1914), jazz had  
become a new form of popular music and from the 1910’s through the  
1920’s its popularity grew. Much like rock and roll, rap and other new  
styles of their time, jazz was considered to be raucous and radical,  
breaking all the rules and stretching the limitations of what was  
thought to be socially acceptable music, not to mention the dancing  
that it accompanied.

Ironically, the first recordings of jazz were not made in New Orleans,  
nor were they made by African American musicians. This was the case  
in part due to the lack of recording studios in the south, and in larger  
part due to the unfortunate inequality of opportunities for African  
American musicians compared to white musicians. The first recording  
to be designated as jazz was made in 1917 by a group of white  
musicians known as The Original Dixieland Jazz Band (ODJB). Enamored  
by the sounds of New Orleans jazz, bandleader

Nick LaRocca (1889-1961) and  
his group assimilated what  
they heard African American  
musicians doing in New  
Orleans. The band traveled to  
New York City and Chicago to  
play gigs and were an  
overnight sensation. This first  
record which featured “Livery  
Stable Blues” on one side and  
“Dixieland Jazz Band One-Step”

on the other, sparked a national fad for jazz music within weeks of its  
release in March 1917. In 1918 they released their biggest hit record  
“Tiger Rag”, composed by LaRocca. Folks my age and older might  
remember that this was the theme song for “Tony the Tiger” (Frosted  
Flakes icon) in the 1970’s. The success of these early jazz records  
opened the door for further “African Americanization” of popular music  
and by the 1920’s we would have authentic recordings by African  
American jazz musicians such as King Oliver, Jelly Roll Morton, and the  
most significant musician in early jazz, Louis Armstrong. Louis  
Armstrong is regarded by many historians to be the most important  
musician in jazz, period. Armstrong’s recordings are pivotal and 
trend-setting; they are reasonably thought to be the most important  
recordings in the history of jazz music.  

On a personal note, speaking as a present day jazz musician, these  
records are remarkably ahead of their time and listening to them for  
me is a goose bump-filled experience! Whether you are a jazz fan or  
not, hearing the music of Louis Armstrong is without a doubt a journey  
into the essence of American art and the freedom of spirit that our  
nation professes to encourage.

Jazz music from 1917- 1929, though quite popular, would have still  
been considered “alternative” music, to use a contemporary term.  
Upper and middle class musical taste primarily gravitated towards  
symphonic dance music, that is, music played for formal ballroom style  
dancing.  

Paul Whiteman (1890-1967) was an accomplished musician, a  
charismatic bandleader and an astute businessman who led the most  
popular dance band of the 1920’s. Whiteman’s symphonic dance band  
was known as the Ambassador Orchestra and they performed both
popular and “serious” music. The 1924 debut of George Gershwin’s  
Rhapsody in Blue was performed by Whiteman’s band. Paul Whiteman  
was both perplexed and compelled by the sounds of New Orleans jazz.  
Being the commercial visionary that he was, Paul Whiteman  
incorporated the rhythmic and harmonic edginess of improvisational  
small group jazz into the symphonic dance band repertoire, creating a  
hybrid form of dance music known as “symphonic” jazz. In what was  
likely to have been a public relations ploy, Whiteman assumed the title  
“King of Jazz” and introduced a “safe”, watered down version of jazz to  
the general public. Whiteman pretentiously claimed to have made “an  
honest woman of jazz”. Whether or not this was a positive contribution  
is best left to person to person debate. However, Whiteman’s  
contributions to the popular music scene as a whole are undeniable. His  
music significantly widened the market for jazz based dance music  
which paved the way for the Swing era. He also launched the careers of  
many brilliant young players and arrangers and established a level of  
professionalism that was a model for subsequent dance bands on both  
sides of the color line. The jazz of the 1920’s would prove to be an  
incubator for what the 1930’s would bring - the Big Band or Swing era  
which was the only time in American history when jazz, our native art  
form, would enjoy the limelight as the mainstream form of popular  
music.