#AmericanPopMusic [[8. Early Country Music]]
By the early 1900’s many new music publishing firms were emerging. A large majority of them were founded and operated by Jewish immigrants who set up headquarters in a section of lower Manhattan. The environment was a busy hive of songwriters, musicians, publishers, instrument dealers, and talent scouts who produced and promoted songs. It was a musical flea market where anything that had to do with popular music could be found. This stretch of 28th street became known as Tin Pan Alley, named for the sound of dozens of pianos clanging simultaneously from the beginning to the end of the business day. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, (A.S.C.A.P.), a non-profit organization designed to protect artist’s rights, was a presence there. However, many musicians, like today, enjoyed slipping “under their radar” when it was profitable to do so. Tin Pan Alley produced some of the greatest American songs and songwriters including: George Gershwin (1898-1937), Irving Berlin (1888-1989), Cole Porter (1891-1964), and Richard Rodgers (1902-1979). As is true today, pop song writers discovered formulas for songs that were catchy, and they exploited them without shame. The content of majority of Tin Pan Alley songs was on the lighter side, as they talked about romance and other universally relatable things. Melodies were contagious and in most cases were easy enough for non-musicians to sing. The rhythms were danceable, and multiple renditions by popular singers and bands were available on records or “covers” as we would call them today. The most common formula used by these composers, known as “Tin Pan Alley” song form, is the AABA song form which is typically 32 bars (measures) long and preceded by a verse. This form consists of two 8 bar phrases using the same melody, a contrasting 8 bar B section, and concluding with a reprise of the A section. Countless standards follow this formula including many if not most of our classic secular Christmas songs. Tin Pan Alley produced the vast majority of music that we refer to as the “Great American Songbook” or tunes referred to as standards. Standards are songs that have enjoyed enduring popularity apart from nostalgia. “Somewhere Over the Rainbow” is a classic example of both a standard and a 32 bar AABA song form.

