#AmericanPopMusic
The music that we refer to today as country music was called country and western music from the mid 1930’s – 1970’s. Before that, it was referred to as hillbilly music. Although hillbilly music predominantly evolved from the ballads, folksongs, and sacred songs of immigrants from the British Isles, to say that is was homogenously European would be inaccurate. Early country music was also influenced by minstrelsy and other African American styles such as the blues. The first known recording of hillbilly music was made in 1924 by a singer/songwriter named Vernon Dalhart (1883-1948). It was entitled, “The Wreck of the Old 97”, and is a classic example of a country ballad. 

The popularity of country music, particularly among rural whites, began to grow. Within a few years of Dalhart’s modest recording, two of the greatest pioneers in country music emerged: The Carter Family and Jimmy Rodgers.

The Carter Family and Jimmie Rodgers represent two parallels that still exist in country music: the wholesome gospel-like artists and songs that uphold family and in some cases even Christian values and the footloose, maverick cowboy types who sing of their own incorrigible exploits with impunity.

The Carters were a farming family from the foothills of the Clinch Mountains of Virginia. They were a trio led by A.P. “Doc” Carter (1891- 1960) his wife Sara Carter (1898-1979) and his sister-in-law Maybelle Carter (1909-1978). Sara sang lead vocals, and Maybelle and Doc sang harmony. Maybelle Carter had a distinctive guitar style that was influential for many country guitarists that followed. The Carters were the embodiment of hard working Christian folks who lived the simple life, and their music celebrated such a lifestyle. The Carter’s songs were frequently Christian in content, and although at times hardships are represented in their music, triumph through their faith in God is a common conclusion in their ballads. Many of their songs are considered country standards including: “Will the Circle be Unbroken”, “Wildwood Flower”, “Keep on the Sunny Side”, and “Ring of Fire” to name a few. If the Carter Family was the personification of simplistic living and wholesomeness, the quintessential rambling man was Jimmie Rodgers (1897-1933) 

Jimmie Rodgers was a heavy drinker, gambler, brawler, and a womanizer whose lifestyle contributed to his untimely death from tuberculosis at the age of thirty-six. The nature of his life and death added to his mystique, and every “bad boy” country artist since owes a measure of debt to him for inspiration. Musically, Rodgers was an extremely versatile artist and his singing, yodeling, guitar playing, and songwriting was every bit as influential as the Carters, if not more. Rodgers drew from both the European and African American sources of tradition equally and skillfully, and the result was a unique and compelling sound that enhanced his catchy tunes and witty lyrics. Among Jimmie Rodgers’ greatest hits were: “Waiting for a Train”, “Blue Yodel”, “Pistol Packin’ Papa”, and “Any Old Time”.

