#AmericanPopMusic
I attended the jazz concert in the Larson Student Union at 8:30pm on 11/12/22. This concert featured The Cats. The Cats consist of my dear friend Eli Whitehead-Zimmers on Cello, Tyler Greene on the accordion, Tea Paris in the drum kit, Josiah Provan on the keys, Hanna on the alto saxophone, and Joseph on the double bass.

There first song featured an initial solo from Hanna(sax), followed by a very groovy solo from Josiah(keys). Joseph on the double bass played a beautiful solo, followed by Eli's solo on the cello.

There second song, popularized by Frank Sinatra, Fly Me to the Moon, was beautifully swing. I am a jazz percussionist at heart and I deeply enjoyed this rendition.  Solo - accordion, solo - saxophone, solo - keys, solo - cello, solo - double bass (almost lost me in the deep groove, the rest of the began snapping along to the beat, which I assume was to keep Joseph in time) solo - drums. We finally returned to the melody with Eli on the cello, followed by a nice half-time chorus to really jazz up the jazz. By far my favorite of the night.

Eli proceeded to intro us to a "French classic", La Vie En Rose. I initially felt the similarities between the Fly Me to the Moon melody and Tyler's swingy La Vie En Rose melody. This was a gentle slow swing, with some minimalistic assistance by the double bass and cello. I loved this piece, particularly the solos showcased. Tyler began on the accordion, followed by a more aggressive groove on the keys. This lead into a smooth solo by Eli on the cello. Hanna showcased her solo next, with a slightly more withheld approached but elegant. As we returned to the initial melodics I felt immense appreciation 

I have heard nearly all of these individuals play in different settings before, but by this point in the set anyone could tell that they were professionals. I don't know if they actually got paid for this, but their comfort on stage and musical ability, primarily showcased in their solos, was nothing but professional.

Next, was Impressions by John Coltrane. The groove was a direct foil to the previous beat. We are talking like 130-140 bpm. I was impressed, so much so that I didn't catch the order of the soloists. Tea was destroying the groove though. I have quite a bit of experience playing in the kit and I am overly familiar with the intensity of a quicken tempo such as Impressions. Speaking of Coltrane, I am quite the 

tea seemingly switched up 3/3 in her solo.

Blue Bossa. to me this is a falls into a more familiar grounding in jazz. I don't believe I have personally played this before but the style of jazz feels like home to me. I can see myself playing it in my years in my highschool big band or maybe my Combo experience. The soloist line up began with the alto saxophone, followed by the keys, and then a very passionate solo by the cello. Next was the accordion, and I cannot describe it but he felt more isolated and alone on the stage than the other soloist. Within this isolation he clearly shines and takes the stage. Finally, the double bass's solo was groovy and nearly off beat, but absolutely lovely.

The final tune of the night, Strasbourg, I believe by Mr. Roy Hargrove. This was groovy. Hanna took the lead in the verse on the sax while Tea laid down a solid newer jazz feel. Lots of rim taps and open hats. I loved this rendition. The soloists list is lost on me but I recall the accordion tearing up the melody. The sax and accordion proceeded to trade fours for a minute which I was pleasantly surprised about. Following that drum kit and the double bass traded fours. I was very impressed with there rendition. 