#NetworkSecurity
# 4.1 Quiz
1. You have hired 10 new temporary workers who will be with the company for three months. You want to make sure that the user accounts cannot be used for login after that time period. What should you do?
	1. Configure account expiration in the user accounts.
2. Which Microsoft tool can be used to review a system's security configuration against recommended settings?
	1. Microsoft Security Compliance Toolkit
3. Which type of update should be prioritized even outside of a normal patching window?
	1. Critical updates
4. Prepare to Document means establishing the process you will use to document your network. Which of the following makes this documentation more useful?
	1. Have a printed hard copy kept in a secure location.
5. Documenting procedures and processes are part of which milestone in the NSA's Manageable Network Plan?
	1. Document Your Network
6. In which milestone should you use a network scanner and then confirm the scan manually with a room-by-room walkthrough?
	1. Map Your Network
7. Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) is used to accomplish which part of a manageable network?
	1. Patch management
8. You have recently been hired as the new network administrator for a startup company. The company's network was implemented prior to your arrival. One of the first tasks you need to complete in your new position is to develop a manageable network plan for the network. You have already completed the first and second milestones, in which documentation procedures were identified and the network was mapped. You are now working on the third milestone, which is identifying ways to protect the network. Which tasks should you complete as a part of this milestone? (Select two.)
	1. Identify and document each user on the network.
	2. Physically secure high-value systems.
9. For Milestone 4 (Reach Your Network), which of the following would be considered a secure protocol to use to reach your network?
	1. SSH
10. As you go through the process of making your network more manageable, you discover that employees in the sales department are on the same network segment as the human resources department. Which of the following steps can be used to isolate these departments?
	1. Create a separate VLAN for each department.

# 4.2 Quiz
1. Which of the following tools can you use on a Windows network to automatically distribute and install software and operating system patches on workstations? (Select two.)
	1. Group Policy
	2. WSUS
2. Which of the following describes a configuration baseline?
	1. A list of common security settings that a group or all devices share
3. What should you consider security baselines?
	1. Dynamic
4. By definition, what is the process of reducing security exposure and tightening security controls?
	1. Hardening
5. Which of the following is the strongest form of multi-factor authentication?
	1. A password, a biometric scan, and a token device
6. You have recently experienced a security incident with one of your servers. After some research, you determine that a new hotfix has recently been released, which would have protected the server. Which of the following recommendations should you follow when applying the hotfix?
	1. Test the hotfix and then apply it to all servers.
7. Which of the following actions should you take to reduce the attack surface of a server?
	1. Disable unused services.
8. Which of the following do security templates allow you to do? (Select two.)
	1. Quickly apply settings to multiple computers
	2. Configure consistent security settings between devices
9. You have just purchased a new network device and are getting ready to connect it to your network. Which of the following actions should you take to increase its security? (Select two.)
	1. Change default account passwords.
	2. Apply all patches and updates.
10. Which of the following is defined as an operating system that comes hardened and validated to a specific security level as defined in the Common Criteria for Information Technology Security Evaluation (CC)?
	1. TOS



1.  Open the Data (D:) drive.
    1.  From the Windows taskbar, select **File Explorer**.
    2.  From the left pane, expand and select **This PC** > **Data (D:)**.
2.  Disable inheritance and convert inherited permissions to explicit permissions.
    1.  From the right pane, right-click the applicable **_folder_** and then select **Properties**.
    2.  Select the **Security** tab.
    3.  Select **Advanced** to modify inherited permissions.
    4.  Select **Disable inheritance** to prevent inherited permissions.
    5.  Select **Convert inherited permissions into explicit permissions on this object**.
3.  Remove the Users group from the access control list.
    1.  In _Permission entries_, select **Users**.
    2.  Select **Remove** to remove the group from the access control list.
    3.  Select **OK**.
4.  Add a new group to the access control list and allow Full Control.
    1.  Select **Edit** to add a group to the access control list.
    2.  Select **Add**.
    3.  Enter the _**name**_ of the group you want to add and then select **Check Names**.
    4.  Select **OK**.
    5.  With the newly added group selected, under the Allow column, select **Full control** and then select **OK**.
    6.  Select **OK** to close the properties dialog.
5.  Repeat steps 2 - 4 to modify the permissions for the additional folder.

# 4.3 Quiz
1. You have placed a File Transfer Protocol (FTP) server in your DMZ behind your firewall. The FTP server is to be used to distribute software updates and demonstration versions of your products. However, users report that they are unable to access the FTP server. What should you do to enable access?
	1. Open ports 20 and 21 for outbound connections.
2. FTPS uses which mechanism to provide security for authentication and data transfer?
	1. SSL
3. To transfer files to your company's internal network from home, you use FTP. The administrator has recently implemented a firewall at the network perimeter and disabled as many ports as possible. Now, you can no longer make the FTP connection. You suspect the firewall is causing the issue. Which ports need to remain open so you can still transfer the files? (Select two.)
	1. 20
	2. 21
4. You want to close all ports associated with NetBIOS on your network's firewalls to prevent attacks directed against NetBIOS. Which ports should you close?
	1. 135, 137-139
5. Which of the following file transfer protocols use SSH to provide confidentiality during the transfer? (Select two.)
	1. SCP
	2. SFTP
6. To increase security on your company's internal network, the administrator has disabled as many ports as possible. However, now you can browse the internet, but you are unable to perform secure credit card transactions. Which port needs to be enabled to allow secure transactions?
	1. 443
7. You have a shared folder named Reports. Members of the Managers group have been given Write access to the shared folder. Mark Mangum is a member of the Managers group. He needs access to the files in the Reports folder, but he should not have any access to the Confidential.xls file. What should you do?
	1. Add Mark Mangum to the ACL for the Confidential.xls file with Deny permissions.
8. You want to give all managers the ability to view and edit a certain file. To do so, you need to edit the discretionary access control list (DACL) associated with the file. You want to be able to easily add and remove managers as their job positions change. What is the BEST way to accomplish this?
	1. Create a security group for the managers. Add all users as members of the group. Add the group to the file's DACL.
9. If Mark has a read-write permission to the share \ fileserver \ securefiles and a read-only permission to the file coolstuff.docx on the NTFS file system shared by the file share, he is able to perform which action?
	1. Read the files
10. You have a file server named Srv3 that holds files used by the development department. You want to allow users to access the files over the network and control access to files accessed through the network or through a local logon. Which solution should you implement?
	1. NTFS permissions and share permissions

# 4.4 Quiz
1. Which command should you use to display both listening and non-listening sockets on your Linux system? (Tip: enter the command as if in Command Prompt.)
	1. netstat -a
2. Which command should you use to scan for open TCP ports on your Linux system? (Tip: enter the command as if in Command Prompt.)
	1. nmap -sT
3. You need to increase the security of your Linux system by finding and closing open ports. Which of the following commands should you use to locate open ports?
	1. nmap
4. What does the **netstat -a** command show?
	1. All listening and non-listening sockets
5. You want to make sure no unneeded software packages are running on your Linux server. Select the command from the drop-down list that you can use to see all installed RPM packages.
	1. yum list installed
6. Which action would you use in a rule to disallow a connection silently?
	1. Drop
7. In which of the iptables default chains would you configure a rule to allow an external device to access the HTTPS port on the Linux server?
	1. Input
8. Which type of packet would the sender receive if they sent a connection request to TCP port 25 on a server with the following command applied? **sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 25 -j REJECT**
	1. RST
9. You have configured the following rules. What is the effect? **sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 25 -m conntrack --ctstate NEW,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT          sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 25 -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT**
	1. Allow SMTP traffic
10. Which command would you use to list all of the currently defined iptables rules?
	1. **sudo iptables -L**


