# Event vs. Incident
- Event
	- Something Anomalous
- Incident
	- Known security policy violation
	- Demands a response
	- Not to be done on the fly

# Action Plans
- Prior to
	- Create a Plan
		- Who is allowed to touch the hacked computer
	- Isolation / Segmentation
	- Instrument the system
	- Practice!
- Initial Actions
	- Stop the Damage
	- Containment / Quarantine
	- Preserver Evidence
	- Alternatives?
- Ultimate Goals
	- Restore system and trust
	- Prevent future intrusions
	- Justice

# Big Picture
- MITRE ATT@CK framework
- Intrusion Set
- Sandworm
- REMEBER! The Adversary evolves!

# Logs
- How to Collect (Prior to an instant)
	- Remote / Local
	- Subscriptions
		- Picking specific data that you want logs for
- Protecting Logs
	- Make sure they can't be modified 
- Meta Data
	- Data about data
	- Helps find relevant data
- Establishing Baseline
	- Normal traffic, used to compare to an anomalous condition
- Filtering
	- Parsing through data 

# Forensics and the Law
- Legal Burden
- Legal Hold
	- Data retention 
- Chain of Custody
- Fruit of the Poisonous Tree
	- Any evidence source illegally isn't admissible in court
- Tagging
	- Collecting evidence
- Forensics Reports
	- This is want I think happened, how I think they got it, etc.
- Order of Volatility
- Write Blockers
- If called to testify

# Redundancy
- Cold Site
	- Secondary Location
- Warm Site
	- ^
	- Equipment At Location
	- Connectivity At Location
- Hot Site
	- ^
	- Active Before Failover
- Now everyone uses the Cloud instead of paying for an offsite location

# Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID)
- Raid 0
	- Have two disks, use them as if they are a single disk
	- Takes half the time, uses **striping**, stores data between the disks 
- Raid 1
	- Have two disks, use them as duplicates of each other
	- Instant backup, more redundancy
- Raid 5
	- Called Stripe plus Parody
		- Odd Parody - The count of 1s in binary equals an odd number
		- Even Parody - The count of 1s in binary equals an even number
	- Need at least 3 disks, roughly 3/4 of the space is available for the user
	- With 4 disks, 3 get the data and the 4th gets parody-ed to ensure potential backup

# Clustering
- Load Balancing Clustering
- Failover Cluster
- Use of Storage Area Network (SAN)
- Dedicated Networks
- Tight Linkages

# Backup Strategies
- Archive Bit
- Full Backup - Self Explanatory 
- Incremental Backup - Add to previous backup
- Differential Backup - New backup for everyday range of time
- Cloud Back up - Most common
- Media

# Backup Pitfalls
- Not testing the recovery process
	- Only works if you can prove that the backup can restore the machine
	- Need proof or it doesn't work
- Including the backdoor
	- Get hacked? Need to close the backdoor on the backup you are going to use
- Not protecting the backups
	- Keep them offsite, safe from fire
- Backup vs. Rebuild
	- Get hacked? Can't tell how? Might need to rebuild from scratch instead of just backup