1. Discuss the way in which a company's resources, capabilities, and value chain activities affect competitive advantage.
2. Rumelt (chapter 12) discusses "interesting advantages" and "value creating changes." Apply these concepts to Messiah University
	1. "For an advantage to be sustained, your competitors must not be able to duplicate it" (163)
	2. For value creating changes: One of the most important aspects of increasing value is:
		1. "broadening the extent of advantages" (169)
			1. Messiah University is constantly evaluating adding new Majors / Curriculums to branch into different areas of the higher education market. Since they have broken into the Cybersecurity Education field, their Computer Mathematics and Physics department has remarkable grown in size
		2. "creating higher demand for advantaged products or services" (169)
			1. Advertisements and free tours, merchandise and outreach programs to reach more students looking for private Christian higher education 


 The competitive advantage of a company is directly influenced by its resources, such as assets and equipment, the capabilities it has, what process or approaches it specializes in, and its value chain activities. This value chain is the line of events that determine the value of an org. To beat competitors, resources, and capabilities must align and positively influence the value chain. The concepts that Rumelt introduced, "interesting advantages" and "value-creating changes" can easily be applied to Messiah University. Messiah's strategic decision to expand its Computer Science Curriculum into the Cybersecurity Education field is a great example of how the University "broadens the extent of its advantages." (Rumelt, 2011) This is one of the four vital aspects of increasing value as an organization, and Messiah shows its interest in this way by broadening its educational offerings to more potential students (customers). Since the addition of the Cybersecurity Major, the remarkable growth of the Computer Mathematics and Physics department is a great example of the success of this strategy. Messiah's effort to reach more students through ads, free tours, and outreach programs are good examples of another factor in increasing value: "creating higher demand for advantaged products or services" (Rumelt, 2011) These initiatives show the value of the University's Christian atmosphere and like-minded community to potential students. By marketing the campus, curriculum, and unique advantages of Messiah University, the overall visibility and individual interest of students rise. These approaches are important, and it's reassuring that Messiah is invested in them, but interesting advantages are also vital. As Rumelt stated: "For an advantage to be sustained, your competitors must not be able to duplicate it" (Rumelt, 2011) Messiah's advantages are easiest compared to non-faith-based colleges and universities. A faith-based mission allows for generational commitment to the founder's ideals, in Messiah's case, the founding church's values. This deeply holds board and cabinet members to the same principles as their predecessors. While this can be mimicked in secular education, it is more black-and-white with a faith-based approach. The close-knit Christian community is a unique advantage Messiah holds over other faith-oriented colleges. The reputation Messiah has for its supportive campus culture fosters personal and professional growth as well as individual faith.

References:
Rumelt, R.P.  (2011).  _Good Strategy/Bad Strategy_: _The difference and why it matters_.  Crown Publishing Group.