In an original post (not to exceed 250 words) describe how your organization currently uses business analytics and where it can improve. Be as specific as possible.

Then respond to 2 of your colleagues' posts (250 word limit post), challenging assumptions and pressing the conversation deeper. Use the literature, both provided in the course and through your own research, to support your ideas.  You are required to post a minimum of 3 times.

My organization, Messiah University, utilizes internal analytics for current students and faculty and externally through advertisements for graduates/alumni. Messiah excels at gathering and analyzing data about their courses, specifically student's experience with every course. They utilize an IDEA evaluation system to serve and report on every undergraduate-level course for each student. The detailed multiple-choice questions/text area questions speak to the depth at which the University is interested in querying and analyzing this data. Messiah collects data in a variety of layouts, types, and structures. Most notably, I have developed many of Messiah's custom websites, and the analytical data collected through my code is raw data, usually in the form of JSON or PHP arrays. More traditional structures of data, such as spreadsheet, pdf, and txt are created when we serve the data to users, clients, students, donors, etc. I believe many of Messiah's analytical processes are currently handled by expensive 3rd party systems such as dynamic forms, while they could be handled in-house by the expertise of the ITS department (where I work). The financial cost of deep data analysis is usually overlooked and I see an efficient alternative option that negates the price tag of 3rd-party services.

References:

Davenport, T. H., Morison, R., & Harris, J. G. (2010). _Analytics at work: Smarter Decisions, Better results_. Harvard Business Review.


### Samantha's Post:
As a current restaurant employee, I rarely have access to organizational data in the course of my job. However, out of curiosity I have asked my managers questions about how senior management uses data analytics to make business decisions and they have offered to give me access to that data. For example, our franchise has been encouraging servers to use table kiosks to ring in drink and appetizer orders in the interest of increasing speed of service and table turnover. The analysis that was performed on the table turnover and speed of service concluded that using the table kiosk did increase the rate with which servers could complete tables. Most of my coworkers, however, believe that this practice actually slows them down, in part because the kiosks take longer to load, are unreliable in sending orders and as a payment method, and don't interface well with pre-existing order entry systems. What I'd be curious about is what metric the franchise chose to judge speed of service. In Chapter 6 of _Know the Difference Between Your Data and Your Metrics,_ Bladt and Filbin describe how the metric an organization chooses to focus on affects how managers direct their employees. If the franchise focuses on one measure of speed of service, the kiosk will appear to be more efficient, but taking into account the bigger picture might affect the metrics that it makes sense to manage to. 

Harvard Business Review. (2018). _HBR guide to data analytics basics for managers_. Harvard Business Publishing.

