#ShortStory
# Week 4 Reading Response
Answer the following question in **at least 250 words**.

Does the story want us to believe that Mr. Chiu was responsible for the hepatitis outbreak in Muji City? Why or why not? Use at least three (3) specific moments from the text to support your answer.

- 54 words

- Yes I have assumed that the story wants us to believe that Mr. Chiu is the one responsible for the outbreak of hepatitis in Muji City. The first piece of evidence in on page 409, the last paragraph states "he had worried about his live because three months ago he had suffered from acute hepatitis." I would suggest this could be seen as a throw away line to add more detail to the character, but it could also be viewed as a confirmation that he is guilty of causing the outbreak. The next phrase, my second piece of proof, seals the deal that he is meant to appear as responsible for this outbreak. The passage continues by stating "he was afraid he might have a relapse. But there had been no severe symptom, despite his liver being big and tender." Why would this be in the story? If not to guide the reader into believing that Mr. Chiu is responsible for the outbreak. He has clear history of the disease, and now we see that he has concerns of a relapse. He intentional downplays his concerns of a relapse by ignoring an obvious sign that something is wrong, his liver is noticeably big and tender. As the story progresses we see Mr. Chiu recognizing the return of his hepatitis and the severe pain it causes him. While he is being let out of prison he exclaims "If only I could kill all the bastards!" The story is clearly showcasing Mr. Chiu's thoughts towards his previous captors. Upon his release, Mr. Chiu and his lawyer went from "restaurant to restaurant neat the police station, but at each place he ordered no more than two bowls of food." Mr. Chiu, while perhaps inadvertently, clearly caused the outbreak in Muji City. He downplayed his fears out a relapse in his acute hepatitis. As well as ignoring obvious signs of it's return. After recognizing the clear return of his hepatitis he intentionally orders food from as many restaurants as he can, therefor spreading the disease.