#ShortStory
1. Does it make moral sense for the mother to hide the truth from
	1. Keith about what he's done? Is it just? Why or why not? I believe, if her true reasoning is to protect her husband, she is forced to make an immoral decision. It is hard to fully describe, but to me, I'd suggest that in protecting Keith from this truth, she is in fact telling a lie. A lie, not in her words but in her actions. This façade that she decides to put on does nothing but allows her to continue the lie, the truth is kept from him. I understand her reasoning, but I do not believe it to be just. In my perspective, Keith should know.  

1. For whose sake is she telling the lie and why? If she were lying for Keith's sake, would _that_ be just? Would it be loving?
	1. I would say that she is definitely loving in this choice. She is willing to be a "sin-eater." This loving decision is seemingly made for Keith's sake. I understand her reasoning but I do not believe it to be just. I have an inkling that she has not made this decision only for the sake of loving her husband and her family. I would expect that she does not want to be responsible for hurting or making Keith's mentality worse. That, to me, is protecting herself, rather than loving Keith. She is afraid to bring this information to Keith because she doesn't want to responsible for the consequences of the following conversation. I also gather that Keith tends to be the one in their relationship that contextualizes sin. If she intentionally compromised him, by showing him the result of his sin, she would lose that ability to rely on Keith for his "ability to contextualize sin." Another aspect that favors the idea that she is telling this lie to protect herself, as opposed to telling it to love Keith more.  