#DataCommNetworking [[6. Networking Devices]]
# Network Adapters
|Term|Definition|
|-|-|
|Network interface card|A hardware device that connects a computer to the network medium. It is responsible for converting binary data into a format that can be sent on the network medium. A NIC is also called a network adapter.
|Gigabit interface converter (GBIC)|A transceiver that converts electrical signals to optical signals and vice versa in fiber optic and Ethernet systems.
|Small form-factor pluggable (SFP) |A transceiver that is similar to a GBIC but is smaller in size. An SFP is sometimes called a mini-GBIC.
|XFP|A 10-Gigabit small form-factor pluggable transceiver that is similar to an SFP in size but is used for 10-Gigabit networking.
|QSFP|A quad (4-channel) small form-factor compact hot-pluggable transceiver that is also used for data communication applications.
|Media access control (MAC)|A unique identifier burned into the ROM of every Ethernet NIC. The first half of the MAC address (the first six digits) is assigned to each manufacturer. The manufacturer determines the rest of the address, assigning a unique value that identifies the host address.
|Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) |A protocol that hosts use to discover the MAC address of a device from its IP address.
|Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP)|A protocol that hosts use to find the IP address of a host with a known MAC address.

# Network Adapter Facts
A network interface card (NIC), also called a network adapter, connects a host to the network medium.

## Network Interface Card Features

The following are a few features of network interface cards.

-   The network interface card is responsible for converting binary data into a format that can be sent on the network medium.
    -   A transceiver is responsible for converting digital data into digital signals to be sent on the medium.
        -   The type of signal the transceiver sends depends on the type of network. A fiber optic NIC sends light signals, a wired NIC sends electronic signals on a wire, and a wireless NIC sends radio signals.
        -   To receive signals, the transceiver converts digital signals from the network to digital data for the PC.
    -   A modem converts binary data to analog waves on the sending end (modulation) and then converts the analog waves back to binary data on the receiving end (demodulation).
-   Some computers, such as laptops, come with built-in NICs. Other computers use NICs that plug in to the system's expansion slots or are external to the computer and connect through an existing computer port.
-   Network interface cards are Layer 1 devices because they send and receive signals on the network medium. They are also Layer 2 devices because they must follow the rules for media access and because they read the physical address in a frame.
-   The type of network interface card you choose must match the network architecture you are connecting to.
-   Older network interface cards used an external transceiver to connect to the network media. However, all modern network interface cards use a built-in transceiver.

## Network Interface Card Components

The following table describes various components used by a network interface card.

### Transceiver module

A transceiver module is used to change the media type of a port on a network device, such as a switch or a router. The following are the most common types of transceiver modules:

-   A gigabit interface converter (GBIC) is a large transceiver that fits in a port slot and is used for gigabit media, including copper and fiber optic.
-   A small form-factor pluggable (SFP) is similar to a GBIC, but is a smaller size. An SFP is sometimes called a mini-GBIC.
-   SFP+ is a newer version of the SFP. SFP+ supports data rates as high as 10 Gbit/s, 8 Gbit/s Fiber Channel, 10 gigabit Ethernet, and the Optical Transport Network (OTU2 standard).
-   A 10 gigabit small form-factor pluggable (XFP) transceiver is similar to an SFP in size, but is used for 10 gigabit networking.
-   Quad (4-channel) SFP is a compact hot-pluggable transceiver that is also used for data communication applications.

### Media converter

You use a media converter to connect network interface cards that are using different media types. For example, a media converter could be used to connect a server with a fiber optic Ethernet NIC to a copper Ethernet cable.

-   Media converters work at the Physical layer (Layer 1). Media converters do not read or modify the MAC address in any way.
-   Media converters convert one media type to another within the same architecture (such as Ethernet). A media converter cannot translate between two different architectures. This must be done using a bridge or a router. Converting from one architecture to another requires modifying the frame contents to modify the Data Link layer address.

### Media access control (MAC) address

A MAC address is a unique identifier burned into the ROM of every Ethernet NIC.

-   The MAC address is a 12-digit (48-bit) hexadecimal number (each number ranges from 0–9 or A–F).
-   The address is often written as 00-B0-D0-06-BC-AC or 00B0.D006.BCAC. Dashes, periods, and colons can be used to divide the MAC address parts.
-   The MAC address is globally unique by design. The first half of the MAC address, the first six digits, is assigned to each manufacturer. The manufacturer determines the rest of the address, assigning a unique value that identifies the host address. A manufacturer that uses all the addresses in the original assignment can apply for a new MAC address assignment.
-   Devices use the MAC address to send frames to other devices on the same subnet.

> Some network cards allow you to change the MAC address through jumpers, switches, or software, but there are few legitimate reasons for doing so.

### Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)

Hosts use ARP to discover the MAC address of a device from its IP address. Before two devices can communicate, the MAC address of the receiving device must be known. If the MAC address isn't known, ARP does the following to find it:

1.  The sending device sends out a broadcast frame.
    -   The destination MAC address is all Fs (FFFF:FFFF:FFFF).
    -   The sending MAC address is its own MAC address.
    -   The destination IP address is the known IP address of the destination host.
    -   The sending IP address is its own IP address.
2.  All hosts on the subnet process the broadcast frame, looking at the destination IP address.
3.  If the destination IP address matches its own address, the host responds with a frame that includes its own MAC address as the sending MAC address.
4.  The original sender reads the MAC address from the frame and associates the IP address with the MAC address, saving it in its cache.

Once the sender knows the MAC address of the receiver, it sends data in frames addressed to the destination device. These frames include a cyclic redundancy check (CRC) that is used to detect frames that have been corrupted during transmission.

> Hosts use the reverse address resolution protocol (RARP) to find the IP address of a host with a known MAC address.



Complete this lab as follows:

1.  Add the media converter to the rack.
    1.  Under Shelf, expand **Networking Devices**.
    2.  Drag the _**Media Converter**_ to the bottom shelf of the rack in the Workspace.
2.  Connect the SC to LC fiber cable to the media converter.
    1.  Above the rack, select **Back** to switch to the back view of the rack.
    2.  Drag the _**Ethernet cable**_ from the **left** wall outlet to the Ethernet port on the media converter.
    3.  Under Shelf, expand **Cables**.
    4.  Select the **Cable, Fiber, SC to LC** cable.
    5.  From the Selected Component pane, drag the _**Connector, Fiber Duplex LC**_ male connector to the media converter.
3.  Connect the SC to LC cables to the patch panel.
    1.  Above the rack, select **Front** to switch to the front view of the rack.
    2.  From the Selected Component pane:
        -   Drag the _**Fiber Optic SC Connector (A)**_ to port 23 on the fiber patch panel.
        -   Drag the _**Fiber Optic SC Connector (B)**_ to port 24 on the fiber patch panel.
4.  Attach the power adapter to the media converter and plug it into the wall outlet.
    1.  From the Shelf, drag the _**Power Adapter, AC to DC**_ to the DC power port on the media converter.
    2.  From the Select Connector pane, select **DC Power Connector**.
    3.  Above the rack, select **Back** to switch to the back view of the rack.
    4.  From the Selected Component pane, drag the _**AC Power Adapter**_ connector to an open outlet on the rack UPS.  
        The lights on the media converter should turn on.
5.  Navigate to any workstation on Floor 1 to confirm internet connectivity.
    1.  From the top left, select **Building A**.
    2.  Under Building A, select **Floor 1**.
    3.  Select a _**workstation**_ (such as Office1).
    4.  From the notification area, right-click the _**Network**_ icon and select **Open Network & Internet settings**.
    5.  Verify that the workstation has internet connectivity.