"Pan's Labyrinth's" opening scene reminds me of a fairytale but one that is twisted and eludes to a cruel fate for it's protagonist. It is packed with clues that foreshadow what is to come. I am going to break down how this unsettling scene paints a picture of the main points of the movie.

This opening scene is foreshadows the bleak realities of war that Ofelia will soon face. The butterfly is a symbol of the the transformation she'll go through, and it shows a small fraction of the fantasy of this world. The fairy tale book is depicted as too childish for the environment of a gritty war. The use of the natural world as a potential escape for Ofelia, the trees and butterflies are offering her a way out.

"Pan's Labyrinth" doesn't easily fit into a genre. Elements from many genres are present such as war films, with glimpses of brutality from Ofelia's stepfather. The = fantastical creatures and hidden worlds are elements from fantasy films. Not to mention the coming-of-age story present throughout the narrative, but sadly this coming-of-age story is bleak and stripped of the sunshine and rainbows. I expect war films to glorify combat, but "Pan's Labyrinth" shows its as an ugly truth. Fantastical settings are usually safe havens, but here, it's dangerous and evil. This coming-of-age story is twisted and traumatizing.

The director, Guillermo del Toro, is known for embracing monstrous creature designs. The insect-like fairy is a taste of the fantastical creatures present in the rest of the film. The line between beauty and horror is blurred with Guillermo del Toro's direction. Ofelia's escape into fantasy feels similar to Dorothy in "The Wizard of Oz" or Alice in the rabbit hole. But there's a difference here, a darkness, one that reflects the Spanish fascism. The car journey, specifically the forced transplant of Ofelia and her mother, symbolizes the control and brutality of the fascist regime. Ofelia longs for a world untouched by violence; this innocence is emphasized in the opening scene as something she will lose but the conclusion

The opening scene of Pan's Labyrinth isn't a pretty picture. It's bleak atmosphere and stark visuals set the narrative to be a dark twisted journey. It preps audiences to see a world where evil and hope are intertwined, a world where escaping to fantasy might be more dangerous than reality.