# 11.1
1. Which step in the penetration testing life cycle is accomplished using rootkits or Trojan horse programs?
	1. Maintain access
2. You have been hired as part of the team that manages an organization's network defense. Which security team are you working on?
	1. Blue
3. As part of a special program, you have discovered a vulnerability in an organization's website and reported it to the organization. Because of the severity, you are paid a good amount of money. Which type of penetration test are you performing?
	1. Bug Bounty
4. Which phase or step of a security assessment is a passive activity?
	1. Reconnaissance
5. Which of the following activities are typically associated with a penetration test?
	1. Attempt social engineering
6. Which of the following is a very detailed document that defines exactly what is going to be included in the penetration test?
	1. Scope of work
7. Which of the following uses hacking techniques to proactively discover internal vulnerabilities?
	1. Penetration testing
8. What is the primary purpose of penetration testing?
	1. Test the effectiveness of your security perimeter
9. You have been hired to perform a penetration test for an organization. You are given full knowledge of the network before the test begins. Which type of penetration test are you performing?
	1. White box
10. You have been promoted to team lead of one of the security operations teams. Which security team are you now a part of?
	1. White

# 11.2
1. Which of the following tools can be used to view and modify DNS server information in Linux?
	1. dig
2. You want to identify all devices on a network along with a list of open ports on those devices. You want the results displayed in a graphical diagram. Which tool should you use?
	1. Network mapper
3. You need to check network connectivity from your computer to a remote computer. Which of the following tools would be the BEST option to use?
	1. ping
4. You want to use a tool to scan a system for vulnerabilities, including open ports, running services, and missing patches. Which tool should you use?
	1. Nessus
5. You need to enumerate the devices on your network and display the network's configuration details. Which of the following utilities should you use?
	1. nmap
6. Gathering as much personally identifiable information (PII) on a target as possible is a goal of which reconnaissance method?
	1. OSINT
7. Which type of reconnaissance is dumpster diving?
	1. Passive
8. Which passive reconnaissance tool is used to gather information from a variety of public sources?
	1. theHarvester
9. Which of the following tools can be used to see if a target has any online IoT devices without proper security?
	1. Shodan
10. The process of walking around an office building with an 802.11 signal detector is known as:
	1. War driving

# 11.3
1. You are concerned about protecting your network from network-based attacks on the internet. Specifically, you are concerned about attacks that have not yet been identified or that do not have prescribed protections. Which type of device should you use?
	1. Anomaly-based IDS
2. Which of the following describes the worst possible action by an IDS?
	1. The system identified harmful traffic as harmless and allowed it to pass without generating any alerts.
3. Which of the following describes a false positive when using an IPS device?
	1. Legitimate traffic being flagged as malicious
4. As a security precaution, you have implemented IPsec that is used between any two devices on your network. IPsec provides encryption for traffic between devices. You would like to implement a solution that can scan the contents of the encrypted traffic to prevent any malicious attacks. Which solution should you implement?
	1. Host-based IDS
5. What is the most common form of host-based IDS that employs signature or pattern-matching detection methods?
	1. Antivirus software
6. An active IDS system often performs which of the following actions? (Select two.)
	1. Performs reverse lookups to identify an intruder.
	2. Updates filters to block suspect traffic.
7. You are concerned about attacks directed at your network firewall. You want to be able to identify and be notified of any attacks. In addition, you want the system to take immediate action to stop or prevent the attack, if possible. Which tool should you use?
	1. IPS
8. Your organization uses a web server to host an e-commerce site. Because this web server handles financial transactions, you are concerned that it could become a prime target for exploits. You want to implement a network security control that analyzes the contents of each packet going to or from the web server. The security control must be able to identify malicious payloads and block them. What should you do?
	1. Implement an application-aware IPS in front of the web server
9. Which IDS method searches for intrusion or attack attempts by recognizing patterns or identifying entities listed in a database?
	1. Signature-based IDS
10. What does an IDS that uses signature recognition use to identify attacks?
	1. Comparisons to known attack patterns

# 11.4
1. A security administrator logs onto a Windows server on her organization's network. Then she runs a vulnerability scan on that server. Which type of scan was conducted in this scenario?
	1. Credentialed scan
2. In your role as a security analyst, you ran a vulnerability scan, and several vulnerabilities were reported. Upon further inspection, none of the vulnerabilities actually existed. Which type of result is this?
	1. False positive
3. A security administrator needs to run a vulnerability scan that analyzes a system from the perspective of a hacker attacking the organization from the outside. Which type of scan should he or she use?
	1. Non-credentialed scan
4. In your role as a security analyst, you need to stay up to date on the latest threats. You are currently reviewing the latest real-time updates on cyberthreats from across the world. Which of the following resources are you MOST likely using?
	1. Threat feeds
5. You want to be able to identify the services running on a set of servers on your network. Which tool would BEST give you the information you need?
	1. Vulnerability scanner
6. You have run a vulnerability scanning tool and identified several patches that need to be applied to a system. What should you do next after applying the patches?
	1. Run the vulnerability assessment again
7. Which SIEM component is responsible for gathering all event logs from configured devices and securely sending them to the SIEM system?
	1. Collectors
8. Which of the following Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR) system automation components is often used to document the processes and procedures that are to be used by a human during a manual intervention?
	1. Playbook
9. You want to make sure that a set of servers only accepts traffic for specific network services. You have verified that the servers are only running the necessary services, but you also want to make sure that the servers do not accept packets sent to those services. Which tool should you use?
	1. Port scanner
10. Which of the following systems is able to respond to low-level security events without human assistance?
	1. SOAR

# 11.5
1. You are using a protocol analyzer to capture network traffic. You want to only capture the frames coming from a specific IP address. Which of the following can you use to simplify this process?
	1. Capture filters
2. Which of the following processes identifies an operating system based on its response to different types of network traffic?
	1. Fingerprinting
3. You decide to use a packet sniffer to identify the type of traffic sent to a router. You run the packet sniffing software on a device that is connected to a hub with three other computers. The hub is connected to a switch that is connected to the router. When you run the software, you see frames addressed to the four workstations, but not to the router. Which feature should you configure on the switch?
	1. Port mirroring
4. You are running a packet sniffer on your workstation so you can identify the types of traffic on your network. You expect to see all the traffic on the network, but the packet sniffer only seems to be capturing frames that are addressed to the network interface on your workstation. Which of the following must you configure in order to see all of the network traffic?
	1. Configure the network interface to use promiscuous mode.
5. Which of the following accurately describes what a protocol analyzer is used for? (Select two.)
	1. A device that does NOT allow you to capture, modify, and retransmit frames (to perform an attack).
	2. A passive device that is used to copy frames and allow you to view frame contents.
6. You want to identify traffic that is generated and sent through a network by a specific application running on a device. Which tool should you use?
	1. Protocol analyzer
7. You want to know which protocols are being used on your network. You'd like to monitor network traffic and sort traffic by protocol. Which tool should you use?
	1. Packet sniffer 
8. You are concerned about attacks directed against the firewall on your network. You would like to examine the content of individual frames sent to the firewall. Which tool should you use?
	1. Packet sniffer
9. Which of the following roles would be MOST likely to use a protocol analyzer to identify frames that might cause errors?
	1. Security operations team
10. You want to use a tool to see packets on a network, including the source and destination of each packet. Which tool should you use?
	1. Wireshark

# 11.6
1. Which of the following is the term used to describe what happens when an attacker sends falsified messages to link their MAC address with the IP address of a legitimate computer or server on a network?
	1. ARP poisoning
2. Which of the following attacks tries to associate an incorrect MAC address with a known IP address?
	1. ARP poisoning
3. Which type of denial-of-service (DoS) attack occurs when a name server receives malicious or misleading data that incorrectly maps host names and IP addresses?
	1. DNS poisoning
4. While using the internet, you type the URL of one of your favorite sites in the browser. Instead of going to the correct site, the browser displays a completely different website. When you use the IP address of the web server, the correct site is displayed. Which type of attack has likely occurred?
	1. DNS poisoning
5. An attacker uses an exploit to push a modified hosts file to client systems. This hosts file redirects traffic from legitimate tax preparation sites to malicious sites to gather personal and financial information. Which kind of exploit has been used in this scenario?
	1. DNS poisoning
6. Which of the following describes a man-in-the-middle attack?
	1. A false server intercepts communications from a client by impersonating the intended server.
7. Capturing packets as they travel from one host to another with the intent of altering the contents of the packets is a form of which type of attack?
	1. Man-in-the-middle attack
8. Which type of activity changes or falsifies information in order to mislead or re-direct traffic?
	1. Spoofing
9. A router on the border of your network detects a packet with a source address that is from an internal client, but the packet was received on the internet-facing interface. This is an example of which form of attack?
	1. Spoofing
10. Which of the following are network-sniffing tools?
	1. Cain and Able, Ettercap, and TCPDump

# 11.7
1. You are using a password attack that tests every possible keystroke for each single key in a password until the correct one is found. Which of the following technical password attacks are you using?
	1. Brute force attack
2. A user named Bob Smith has been assigned a new desktop workstation to complete his day-to-day work. When provisioning Bob's user account in your organization's domain, you assigned an account name of BSmith with an initial password of bw2Fs3d. On first login, Bob is prompted to change his password. He changes it to the name of his dog, Fido. What should you do to increase the security of Bob's account? (Select two.)
	1. Use Group Policy to require strong passwords on user accounts.
	2. Train users not to use passwords that are easy to guess.
3. In a variation of the brute force attack, an attacker may use a predefined list of common usernames and passwords to gain access to existing user accounts. Which countermeasure best addresses this issue?
	1. A strong password policy
4. You are cleaning your desk at work. You toss several stacks of paper in the trash, including a sticky note with your password written on it. Which of the following types of non-technical password attacks have you enabled?
	1. Dumpster diving
5. Carl received a phone call from a woman who states that she is calling from his bank. She tells him that someone has tried to access his checking account, and she needs him to confirm his account number and password to discuss further details. He gives her his account number and password. Which of the following types of non-technical password attack has occurred?
	1. Social engineering
6. You want to check a server for user accounts that have weak passwords. Which tool should you use?
	1. John the Ripper
7. Which of the following password attacks uses preconfigured matrices of hashed dictionary words?
	1. Rainbow table attack
8. Which of the following strategies can protect against a rainbow table password attack?
	1. Add random bits to the password before hashing takes place
9. Which of the following techniques involves adding random bits of data to a password before it is stored as a hash?
	1. Password salting
10. Which of the following best describes shoulder surfing?
	1. Someone nearby watching you enter your password on your computer and recording it.