#NetworkSecurity
# 10.1
1. As a network administrator, you are asked to recommend a secure method for transferring data between hosts on a network. Which of the following protocols would you recommend? (Select two.)
	1. SCP
	2. SFTP
2. Which of the following protocols uses port 443?
	1. HTTPS
3. Which TCP/IP protocol is a secure form of HTTP that uses SSL as a sub-layer for security?
	1. HTTPS
4. Which of the following tools allow remote management of servers? (Select two.)
	1. SSH
	2. Telnet
5. SFTP uses which mechanism to provide security for authentication and data transfer?
	1. SSH
6. When using SSL authentication, what does the client verify first when checking a server's identity?
	1. The current date and time must fall within the server's certificate-validity period.
7. Which of the following protocols are often added to other protocols to provide secure transmission of data? (Select two.)
	1. TLS
	2. SSL
8. Which of the following protocols can TLS use for key exchange? (Select two.)
	1. RSA
	2. Diffie-Hellman
9. IPsec is implemented through two separate protocols. What are these protocols called? (Select two.)
	1. AH
	2. ESP
10. What is the primary function of the IKE Protocol used with IPsec?
	1. Create a security association between communicating partners.

# 10.2
1. Which of the following is a technology that tries to detect and stop sensitive data breaches, or data leakage incidents, in an organization?
	1. Data loss prevention
2. Which rights management category is applied to music, videos, and software that is sold to consumers?
	1. DRM
3. Your organization is having a third party come in and perform an audit on the financial records. You want to ensure that the auditor has access to the data they need while keeping the customers' data secure. To accomplish this goal, you plan to implement a mask that replaces the client names and account numbers with fictional data. Which masking method are you implementing?
	1. Dynamic
4. Which of the following BEST describes dynamic data masking? (Select two.)
	1. It can be used to control which users can see the actual data.
	2. It replaces original information with a mask that mimics the original in form and function.
5. Which of the following DLP implementations can be used to monitor and control access to physical devices on workstations or servers?
	1. Endpoint DLP
6. DLP can be used to identify sensitive files in a file system and then embed the organization's security policy within the file. Which of the following DLP implementations travels with sensitive data files when they are moved or copied?
	1. File-level DLP
7. You have been offered a position as a security analyst for Acme, Inc. The position will be remote. Acme Inc. has sent you your employment contract using a system that only allows you to open and digitally sign the contract. Which rights management method is being used?
	1. IRM
8. Which DLP method works by replacing sensitive data with realistic fictional data?
	1. Masking
9. DLP can be implemented as a software or hardware solution that analyzes traffic in an attempt to detect sensitive data that is being transmitted in violation of an organization's security policies. Which of the following DLP implementations analyzes traffic for data containing such things as financial documents, social security numbers, or key words used in proprietary intellectual property?
	1. Network DLP
10. Tokenization is another effective tool in data loss prevention. Tokenization does which of the following? (Select two.)
	1. Replaces actual data with a randomly generated alphanumeric character set
	2. Protects data on its server with authentication and authorization protocols

# 10.3
1. Which of the following attacks is a form of software exploitation that transmits or submits a longer stream of data than the input variable is designed to handle?
	1. Buffer overflow attack
2. Having poor software development practices and failing to program input validation checks during development of custom software can result in a system vulnerable to which type of attack?
	1. Buffer overflow attack
3. Which type of attack is the act of exploiting a software program's free acceptance of input in order to execute arbitrary code on a target?
	1. Buffer overflow attack
4. Which of the following is an attack that injects malicious scripts into web pages to redirect users to fake websites to gather personal information?
	1. XSS
5. Which of the following is specifically meant to ensure that a program operates on clean, correct, and useful data?
	1. Input validation
6. You have a website that accepts input from users for creating customer accounts. Input on the form is passed to a database server where the user account information is stored. An attacker is able to insert database commands in the input fields and have those commands execute on the server. Which type of attack has occurred?
	1. SQL injection
7. An attacker inserts SQL database commands into a data input field of an order form used by a web-based application. When submitted, these commands are executed on the remote database server, causing customer contact information from the database to be sent to the malicious user's web browser. Which practice would have prevented this exploit?
	1. Implementing client-side validation
8. Which of the following functions does a single quote (') perform in an SQL injection?
	1. Indicates that data has ended and a command is beginning
9. As you browse the internet, you notice that when you go to some sites, multiple additional windows are opened automatically. Many of these windows contain advertisements for products that are inappropriate for your family to view. Which tool can you implement to prevent these windows from showing?
	1. Pop-up blocker
10. While using a web-based order form, an attacker enters an unusually large value in the Quantity field. The value he or she entered is so large that it exceeds the maximum value supported by the variable type used to store the quantity in the web application. This causes the value of the quantity variable to wrap around to the minimum possible value, which is a negative number. As a result, the web application processes the order as a return instead of a purchase, and the attacker's account is credited with a large sum of money. Which practices would have prevented this exploit? (Select two.)
	1. Implementing client-side validation
	2. Implementing server-side validation



# 10.4
1. Which application development model approaches software development as a continuous, changing process with never-ending versions, bug fixes, and enhancements?
	1. Agile
2. You are performing a security test from the outside on a new application that has been deployed. Which secure testing method are you MOST likely using?
	1. Dynamic
3. Which of the following enters random data to the inputs of an application?
	1. Fuzzing
4. Which of the following is the first step in the Waterfall application development model?
	1. Requirements
5. Which of the following are the two main causes of software vulnerabilities? (Select two.)
	1. Design flaws
	2. Coding errors
6. Which of the following is considered a drawback of the Waterfall application development life cycle?
	1. Requirements are determined at the beginning and are carried through to the end product.
7. You have just finished developing a new application. Before putting it on the website for users to download, you want to provide a checksum to verify that the object has not been modified. Which of the following would you implement?
	1. Code signing 
8. Which fuzz testing program type defines new test data based on models of the input?
	1. Generation-based
9. What is the storage location called that holds all the development source files that version control systems use?
	1. Repository
10. What is a set of software development tools called that can be installed as one unit and provides code frameworks or code snippets to help development go faster?
	1. SDK