# APIPA and Alternate IP Addressing
## Automatic Private IP Addressing
APIPA provides a means to assign a computer an IP address automatically without the aid of a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server. APIPA is enabled by default on most modern operating systems, including Windows and Linux.

-   Hosts configured to have the IP configuration assigned using DHCP can assign themselves an IP address on the 169.254.0.0/16 network if a DHCP server cannot be found. Using APIPA:
    -   Only the IP address and subnet mask are configured. The default gateway and DNS server addresses are not assigned.
    -   The address assigned will be within the range of 169.254.0.0 - 169.254.255.254.
-   APIPA can be used to communicate only within a single subnet. Communication with other networks, including the internet, is not possible.
-   Communication with network infrastructure devices that use static IP addressing, such as servers, is also not possible even if they are on the same local subnet as the APIPA host.
-   When troubleshooting communication issues, a device configured with an APIPA address, typically means that there is an issue with the DHCP server. Renewing the IP address may fix this problem. However, it will not correct the problem if:
    -   The DHCP server is not configured properly.
    -   The scope used to assign the IP addresses has not been activated.

When a host is unable to reach the DHCP server, it will use APIPA to assign itself an IP address. The host will randomly pick an address from the APIPA range and send out an Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) message to ensure that the address is not currently in use. If the response is negative (nobody is using that address), it assigns the address to itself.

The original purpose of APIPA was to provide redundancy in the event the DHCP server goes down. If the DHCP server crashes, then all devices on the network should be able to assign themselves an APIPA address and continue communicating. Unfortunately, this doesn't always work as intended and often many devices retain their DHCP assigned address until their current lease expires.

## Alternate IP Configuration
An alternate IP configuration is a method you can use to assign a static IP address that can be used when there is no access to a DHCP server. When an alternate IP address is configured, APIPA is automatically disabled.

Using an alternate IP configuration is recommended by some as a backup if the DHCP server goes down. In this scenario, the hosts continue communicating with each other and other network resources that use static IP addresses.

An alternate IP configuration is also helpful if the user routinely connects to networks that require a static IP address. For example, a user's laptop connects to the home network using DHCP; but at the office, the laptop requires a static IP configuration. In this scenario, when the laptop connects to the work network, the alternate IP configuration will take over and allow access to that network.

