#DatabseSecurity
https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/news/uber-hit-by-new-data-breach/
# Uber Hit By New Data Breach After Attack on Third-Party Vendor
### Summary 
Uber suffered a data breach when a cybercriminal shared sensitive intellectual company information on a dark web forum. This was stolen from a third-party vendor, Teqtivity. Teqtivity responded on Monday, December 5th, 2022, "We are aware of customer data that was compromised due to unauthorized access to our system by a malicious third party." The intrusion occurred by gaining access to the Teqtivity AWS backup server. This server held the Teqtivity code as well as sensitive customer information. 

This leak could have contained Teqtivity source code. A chief scientist at Rapid7 explains "Source code holds huge value to cyber-criminals as it forms part of a company's intellectual property."  When cyber-criminals obtain source code, they can use it to find security vulnerabilities. This can lead to back doors being implemented, and other forms of cyber-attacks.

Within the data breach, one document contained email addresses and Windows Active Directory information for over 77,000 employees at Uber. The main value of this leak would be detailed information on employees at Uber, this can be used to conduct spear phishing. 

The VP of product marketing and solutions at Gurucul had this to say, "Compromised third parties and suppliers are also a big challenge for security organizations to identify as they often have authorized access to internal systems, even if orphaned or if the company is \[no] longer a supplier." 

Uber clarified the situation when speaking to RestorePrivacy, they said this data breach was unrelated to the previous incident in September, which was later attributed to the prolific hacking group Lapsus$.

### Response
This article is very enlightening for me, it shows the dangers of data leaks in a very realistic situation. I find it interesting how seemingly important it is to maintain security with third parties and other suppliers. But, with a simple vulnerability in a third party's security, all of a sudden, hackers from Lapsus$ were able to compromise third parties and have direct access to source code and sensitive employee information. 

Obviously, this is very scary, how quickly a vulnerability can escalate to a data breach, but I find the simplicity of it fascinating. Reading about it in the past tense, laid out in sequential order, it seems obvious. If you trust a third party enough to do business with them, and especially to share sensitive information with them, you should enforce your levels of security onto their system; assuming you have a stronger security system. This article does not give great insight into the specifics of the vulnerability that was attacked, but you could assume that the attack was intentionally pointed at the third-party, rather than Uber itself.