#NetworkSecurity
# 5.1 Quiz
1. Where should an organization's web server be placed?
	1. DMZ
2. Which of the following is a privately controlled portion of a network that is accessible to some specific external entities?
	1. Extranet
3. You want to create a collection of computers on your network that appear to have valuable data but actually store fake data that could entice a potential intruder. Once the intruder connects, you want to be able to observe and gather information about the attacker's methods. Which feature should you implement?
	1. Honeypot
4. A honeypot is used for which purpose?
	1. To delay intruders in order to gather auditing data
5. Which of the following devices can apply quality of service and traffic-shaping rules based on what created the network traffic?
	1. Application-aware devices
6. You are the office manager of a small financial credit business. Your company handles personal financial information for clients seeking small loans over the internet. You are aware of your obligation to secure clients records, but the budget is an issue for your company. Which item would provide the BEST security for this situation?
	1. All-in-one security appliance
7. You are implementing security at a local high school that is concerned with students accessing inappropriate material on the internet from the library's computers. The students use the computers to search the internet for research paper content. The school budget is limited. Which content filtering option would you choose?
	1. Restrict content based on content categories.
8. Which of the following BEST describes a honeyfile?
	1. A single file setup to entice and trap attackers.
9. Members of the sales team use laptops to connect to the company network. While traveling, they connect their laptops to the internet through airport and hotel networks. You are concerned that these computers could pick up viruses that could spread to your private network. You would like to implement a solution that prevents the laptops from connecting to your network unless antivirus software and the latest operating system patches are installed. Which solution should you use?
	1. NAC
10. A proxy server can be configured to do which of the following?
	1. Restrict users on the inside of a network from getting out to the internet.

1.  Configure an interface for the DMZ.
    1.  From the pfSense menu bar, select **Interfaces** > **Assignments**.
    2.  Select **Add**.
    3.  Select **OPT1**.
    4.  Select **Enable interface**.
    5.  Change the Description field to **DMZ**.
    6.  Under General Configuration, use the IPv4 Configuration Type drop-down menu to select **Static IPv4**.
    7.  Under Static IPv4 Configuration, in the _IPv4 Address_ field, enter **172.16.1.1**.
    8.  Use the subnet mask drop-down menu to select **16**.
    9.  Select **Save**.
    10.  Select **Apply Changes**.
    11.  (Optional) Verify the change as follows:
        -   From the menu bar, select **pfsense COMMUNITY EDITION**.
        -   Under Interfaces, verify that the DMZ is shown with the correct IP address.
2.  Add a firewall rule to the DMZ interface.
    1.  From the pfSense menu bar, select **Firewall** > **Rules**.
    2.  Under the Firewall breadcrumb, select **DMZ**. (Notice that no rules have been created.)
    3.  Under the Firewall breadcrumb, select **LAN**.
    4.  Under the Actions column, select the **copy** icon (two files) for the rule with a source of **LAN net**.
    5.  For the Action field, make sure **Pass** is selected.
    6.  For the Interface field, use the drop-down menu to select **DMZ**.
    7.  For Protocol, make sure it's set to **Any**.
    8.  Under Source, use the drop-down menu to select **DMZ net**.
    9.  Under Destination, make sure it is configured for **any**.
    10.  Under Extra Options, change the description to **Allow DMZ to any rule**. (Is case sensitive.)
    11.  Scroll to the bottom and select **Save**.
    12.  Select **Apply Changes**.
3.  Configure pfSense's DHCP server for the DMZ interface.
    1.  From the menu bar, select **Services** > **DHCP Server**.
    2.  Under the Services breadcrumb, select **DMZ**.
    3.  Select **Enable**.
    4.  Configure the Range field as follows:
        -   From: **172.16.1.100**
        -   To: **172.16.1.200**
    5.  Scroll to the bottom and select **Save**.


1.  Configure an interface for the DMZ.
    1.  From the pfSense menu bar, select **Interfaces** > **Assignments**.
    2.  Select **Add**.
    3.  Select **OPT1**.
    4.  Select **Enable interface**.
    5.  Change the Description field to **DMZ**.
    6.  Under General Configuration, use the IPv4 Configuration Type drop-down menu to select **Static IPv4**.
    7.  Under Static IPv4 Configuration, in the _IPv4 Address_ field, enter **172.16.1.1**.
    8.  Use the subnet mask drop-down menu to select **16**.
    9.  Select **Save**.
    10.  Select **Apply Changes**.
    11.  (Optional) Verify the change as follows:
        -   From the menu bar, select **pfsense COMMUNITY EDITION**.
        -   Under Interfaces, verify that the DMZ is shown with the correct IP address.
2.  Add a firewall rule to the DMZ interface.
    1.  From the pfSense menu bar, select **Firewall** > **Rules**.
    2.  Under the Firewall breadcrumb, select **DMZ**. (Notice that no rules have been created.)
    3.  Under the Firewall breadcrumb, select **LAN**.
    4.  Under the Actions column, select the **copy** icon (two files) for the rule with a source of **LAN net**.
    5.  For the Action field, make sure **Pass** is selected.
    6.  For the Interface field, use the drop-down menu to select **DMZ**.
    7.  For Protocol, make sure it's set to **Any**.
    8.  Under Source, use the drop-down menu to select **DMZ net**.
    9.  Under Destination, make sure it is configured for **any**.
    10.  Under Extra Options, change the description to **Allow DMZ to any rule**. (Is case sensitive.)
    11.  Scroll to the bottom and select **Save**.
    12.  Select **Apply Changes**.
3.  Configure pfSense's DHCP server for the DMZ interface.
    1.  From the menu bar, select **Services** > **DHCP Server**.
    2.  Under the Services breadcrumb, select **DMZ**.
    3.  Select **Enable**.
    4.  Configure the Range field as follows:
        -   From: **172.16.1.100**
        -   To: **172.16.1.200**
    5.  Scroll to the bottom and select **Save**.





1.  Configure NAT port forwarding for the administrator's PC.
    1.  From the pfSense menu bar, select **Firewall** > **NAT**.
    2.  Select **Add** (either one).
    3.  Configure or verify the following settings:
        -   Interface: **LAN**
        -   Protocol: **TCP**
        -   Destination type: **LAN address**
        -   Destination port range (From and To): **MS RDP**
        -   Redirect target IP: **172.16.1.100**
        -   Redirect target port: **MS RDP**
        -   Description: **RDP from LAN to Admin**
    4.  Select **Save**.
2.  Configure NAT port forwarding for the Kali Linux server.
    1.  Select **Add** (either one).
    2.  Configure or verify the following settings:
        -   Interface: **LAN**
        -   Protocol: **TCP**
        -   Destination type: **LAN address**
        -   Destination port range (From and To): **SSH**
        -   Redirect target IP: **172.16.1.6**
        -   Redirect target port: **SSH**
        -   Description: **SSH from LAN to Kali**
    3.  Select **Save**.
3.  Configure NAT port forwarding for the web server.
    1.  Select **Add** (either one).
    2.  Configure or verify the following settings:
        -   Interface: **LAN**
        -   Protocol: **TCP**
        -   Destination type: **LAN address**
        -   Destination port range (From and To): **Other**
            -   Custom (From and To) **5151**
        -   Redirect target IP: **172.16.1.5**
        -   Redirect target port: **MS RDP**
        -   Description: **RDP from LAN to web server using custom port**
    3.  Select **Save**.
    4.  Select **Apply Changes**.

# 5.2
1. Which of the following terms describes a network device that is exposed to attacks and has been hardened against those attacks?
	1. Bastion or sacrificial host
2. Of the following security zones, which one can serve as a buffer network between a private secured network and the untrusted internet?
	1. DMZ
3. Which of the following is the MOST likely to happen if the firewall managing traffic into the DMZ fails?
	1. Only the servers in the DMZ are compromised, but the LAN will stay protected.
4. You have a company network that is connected to the internet. You want all users to have internet access, but you need to protect your private network and users. You also need to make a web server publicly available to internet users. Which solution should you use?
	1. Use firewalls to create a DMZ. Place the web server inside the DMZ and the private network behind the DMZ.
5. How many network interfaces does a dual-homed gateway typically have?
	1. 3
6. What needs to be configured on a firewall to allow traffic directed to the public resource in the DMZ?
	1. Packet Filters
7. You have used firewalls to create a demilitarized zone. You have a web server that needs to be accessible to internet users. The web server must communicate with a database server for retrieving product, customer, and order information. How should you place devices on the network to best protect the servers? (Select two.)
	1. Put the web server inside the DMZ.
	2. Put the database server on the private network.
8. In which of the following situations would you most likely implement a demilitarized zone (DMZ)?
	1. You want to protect a public web server from attack.
9. Which of the following is another name for a firewall that performs router functions?
	1. Screening router
10. Which of the following is the BEST solution to allow access to private resources from the internet?
	1. VPN
# 5.3
1. Which of the following describes how access control lists can be used to improve network security?
	1. An access control list filters traffic based on the IP header information, such as source or destination IP address, protocol, or socket number.
2. Which of the following are features of an application-level gateway? (Select two.)
	1. Stops each packet at the firewall for inspection
	2. Reassembles entire messages
3. You want to install a firewall that can reject packets that are not part of an active session. Which type of firewall should you use?
	1. Circuit-level gateway
4. Jessica needs to set up a firewall to protect her internal network from the internet. Which of the following would be the BEST type of firewall for her to use?
	1. Hardware
5. You have been given a laptop to use for work. You connect the laptop to your company network, use it from home, and use it while traveling. You want to protect the laptop from internet-based attacks. Which solution should you use?
	1. Host-based firewall
6. You have just installed a packet-filtering firewall on your network. Which options are you able to set on your firewall? (Select all that apply.)
	1. Destination address of a packet
	2. Port number
	3. Source address of a packet
7. When designing a firewall, what is the recommended approach for opening and closing ports?
	1. Close all ports; open only ports required by applications inside the DMZ.
8. You connect your computer to a wireless network available at the local library. You find that you can access all of the websites you want on the internet except for two. What might be causing the problem?
	1. A proxy server is blocking access to the websites.
9. Which of the following best describes a stateful inspection?
	1. Determines the legitimacy of traffic based on the state of the connection from which the traffic originated.
10. Which of the following are characteristics of a packet-filtering firewall? (Select two.)
	1. Filters IP address and port
	2. Stateless
# 5.4
1. You want to connect your small company network to the internet. Your ISP provides you with a single IP address that is to be shared between all hosts on your private network. You do not want external hosts to be able to initiate connection to internal hosts. Which type of Network Address Translation (NAT) should you implement?
	1. Dynamic
2. Which NAT implementation assigns two IP addresses to the public NAT interface, allowing traffic to flow in both directions?
	1. Dynamic and static
3. Which device is NAT typically implemented on?
	1. Gateway router
4. Which problem does NAT help address?
	1. The shortage of IPv4 addresses
5. At which layer of the OSI model do NAT routers operate?
	1. Layer 3 (Network layer)
6. How many concurrent connections does NAT support?
	1. 5000
7. Which of the following does a NAT router use to identify where a host is connected on the switch?
	1. PAT
8. A network device is given an IP address of 172.16.0.55. Which type of network is this device on?
	1. Class B private network
9. You have a small network at home that is connected to the internet. On your home network, you have a server with the IP address of 192.168.55.199/16. You have a single public address that is shared by all hosts on your private network. You want to configure the server as a web server and allow internet hosts to contact the server to browse a personal website. What should you use to allow access?
	1. Static NAT
10. You are the network administrator for a small company that implements NAT to access the internet. However, you recently acquired five servers that must be accessible from outside your network. Your ISP has provided you with five additional registered IP addresses to support these new servers, but you don't want the public to access these servers directly. You want to place these servers behind your firewall on the inside network, yet still allow them to be accessible to the public from the outside. Which method of NAT translation should you implement for these servers?
	1. Static
# 5.5
1. A salesperson in your organization spends most of her time traveling between customer sites. After a customer visit, she must complete various managerial tasks, such as updating your organization's order database. Because she rarely comes back to your home office, she usually accesses the network from her notebook computer using Wi-Fi access provided by hotels, restaurants, and airports. Many of these locations provide unencrypted public Wi-Fi access, and you are concerned that sensitive data could be exposed. To remedy this situation, you decide to configure her notebook to use a VPN when accessing the home network over an open wireless connection. Which key steps should you take when implementing this configuration? (Select two.)
	1. Configure the browser to send HTTPS requests through the VPN connection
	2. Configure the VPN connection to use IPsec
2. A group of salesmen would like to remotely access your private network through the internet while they are traveling. You want to control access to the private network through a single server. Which solution should you implement?
	1. VPN concentrator
3. A VPN is primarily used for which of the following purposes?
	1. Support secured communications over an untrusted network
4. Which VPN implementation uses routers on the edge of each site?
	1. Site-to-site VPN
5. Which VPN tunnel style routes only certain types of traffic?
	1. Split
6. Which IPSec subprotocol provides data encryption?
	1. ESP
7. In addition to Authentication Header (AH), IPsec is comprised of what other service?
	1. Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)
8. Which statement BEST describes IPsec when used in tunnel mode?
	1. The entire data packet, including headers, is encapsulated
9. Which VPN protocol typically employs IPsec as its data encryption mechanism?
	1. L2TP
10. Which of the following VPN protocols is no longer considered secure?
	1. PPTP
# 5.6
1. You are investigating the use of website and URL content filtering to prevent users from visiting certain websites. Which benefits are the result of implementing this technology in your organization? (Choose two.)
	1. Enforcement of the organization's internet usage policy
	2. An increase in bandwidth availability
2. Travis is sending a highly confidential email to Craig that contains sensitive data. Which of the following should Travis implement to ensure that only Craig is able to read the email?
	1. Encryption
3. Which of the following types of proxies would you use to remain anonymous when surfing the internet?
	1. Forward
4. As the security analyst for your organization, you have noticed an increase in emails that attempt to trick users into revealing confidential information. Which web threat solution should you implement to protect against these threats?
	1. Anti-phishing software
5. Which of the following are functions of gateway email spam filters? (Select two.)
	1. Blocks email from specific senders
	2. Filters messages containing specific content
6. You are configuring web threat protection on the network and want to block emails coming from a specific sender. Which of the following should be configured?
	1. Spam filter
7. As the security analyst for your organization, you have noticed an increase in user computers being infected with malware. Which two solutions should you implement and configure to remedy this problem? (Select two.)
	1. Spam filters
	2. Virus scanner
8. You are configuring web threat protection on the network and want to prevent users from visiting www.videosite.org. Which of the following needs to be configured?
	1. Website filtering
9. Which of the following types of proxies can be used for web filtering?
	1. Transparent
10. You are configuring web threat protection on the network and have identified a website that contains malicious content. Which of the following should you configure?
	1. Web threat filtering
# 5.7
1. Which of the following NAC agent types would be used for IoT devices?
	1. Agentless
2. Which of the steps in the Network Access Control (NAC) implementation process occurs once the policies have been defined?
	1. Apply
3. Which of the following defines all the prerequisites a device must meet in order to access a network?
	1. Authentication
4. Which of the following applies the appropriate policies in order to provide a device with the access it's defined to receive?
	1. Authorization
5. Which of the following NAC agent types creates a temporary connection?
	1. Dissolvable
6. What is Cisco's Network Access Control (NAC) solution called?
	1. Identity Services Engine (ISE)
7. You are configuring the security settings for your network. You have decided to configure a policy that requires any computer connecting to the network to run at least Windows 10 version 2004. Which of the following have you configured?
	1. NAC
8. Which of the following NAC agent types is the most convenient agent type?
	1. Permanent
9. You are part of a committee that is meeting to define how Network Access Control (NAC) should be implemented in the organization. Which step in the NAC process is this?
	1. Plan
10. Which of the following BEST describes zero-trust security?
	1. Only devices that pass both authentication and authorization are trusted.
# 5.8
1. You are the security analyst for your organization and have discovered evidence that someone is attempting to brute-force the root password on the web server. Which classification of attack type is this?
	1. Active
2. Drag the network attack technique on the left to the appropriate description or example on the right. (Each technique may be used once, more than once, or not at all.)
	1. Perpetrators attempt to compromise or affect the operations of a system. 
		1. Active attack
	2. Unauthorized individuals try to breach a network from off-site.
		1. External attack
	3. Attempting to find the root password on a web server by brute force.
		1. Active attack
	4. Attempting to gather information without affecting the flow of information on the network.
		1. Passive attack
	5. Sniffing network packets or performing a port scan.
		1. Passive attack
3. An attacker sets up 100 drone computers that flood a DNS server with invalid requests. This is an example of which kind of attack?
	1. DDoS
4. In which of the following zones would a web server most likely be placed?
	1. Low-trust zone
5. Which area of focus helps to identify weak network architecture or design?
	1. Documentation
6. Which classification of attack type does packet sniffing fall under?
	1. Passive
7. Which area of focus do public-facing servers, workstations, Wi-Fi networks, and personal devices fall under?
	1. Entry points
8. Your network devices are categorized into the following zone types: No-trust zone - Low-trust zone - Medium-trust zone - High-trust zone - Your network architecture employs multiple VLANs for each of these network zones. Each zone is separated by a firewall that ensures only specific traffic is allowed Which of the following is the secure architecture concept that is being used on this network?
	1. Network segmentation
9. Your organization has started receiving phishing emails. You suspect that an attacker is attempting to find an employee workstation they can compromise. You know that a workstation can be used as a pivot point to gain access to more sensitive systems. Which of the following is the MOST important aspect of maintaining network security against this type of attack?
	1. User education and training
10. Which of the following is commonly created to segment a network into different zones?
	1. VLANs
# 5.9
# 5.10
1. Which common design feature among instant messaging clients make them less secure than other means of communicating over the internet?
	1. Peer-to-peer networking
2. Which type of application allows users to share and access content without using a centralized server?
	1. Peer-to-peer software
3. Which of the following methods did Microsoft introduce in Windows 10 to help distribute OS updates?
	1. Peer-to-peer software
4. Which of the following is a benefit of P2P applications?
	1. Shared resources
5. What do application control solutions use to identify specific applications?
	1. Application signatures
6. Which of the following is susceptible to social engineering exploits?
	1. Instant messaging
7. Which of the following is considered a major problem with instant messaging applications?
	1. Loss of productivity
8. You are the security analyst for your organization and have recently noticed a large amount of spim on the company mobile devices. Employees rely on the IM app to communicate with each other. Which of the following countermeasures should you implement?
	1. Use an IM blocker.
9. You have implemented a new application control solution. After monitoring traffic and use for a while, you have noticed an application that continuously circumvents blocking. How should you configure the application control software to handle this application?
	1. Tarpit
10. You are implementing a new application control solution. Prior to enforcing your application whitelist, you want to monitor user traffic for a period of time to discover user behaviors and log violations for later review. How should you configure the application control software to handle applications not contained in the whitelist?
	1. Flag
# 5.11
1. Which of the following scenarios would typically utilize 802.1x authentication?
	1. Controlling access through a switch
2. You are the network administrator for a city library. Throughout the library are several groups of computers that provide public access to the internet. Supervision of these computers has been difficult. You've had problems with patrons bringing personal laptops into the library and disconnecting the network cables from the library computers to connect their laptops to the internet. The library computers are in groups of four. Each group of four computers is connected to a hub that is connected to the library network through an access port on a switch. You want to restrict access to the network so that only library computers are permitted connectivity to the internet. What can you do?
	1. Configure port security on the switch.
3. You manage a single subnet with three switches. They are connected to provide redundant paths between the switches. Which feature prevents switching loops and ensures there is only a single active path between any two switches?
	1. Spanning Tree Protocol
4. When configuring VLANs on a switch, which type of switch ports are members of all VLANs defined on the switch?
	1. Trunk ports
5. Which of the following best describes the concept of a virtual LAN?
	1. Devices on the same network logically grouped as if they were on separate networks.
6. Which of the following switch attacks associates the attacker's MAC address with the IP address of the victim's devices?
	1. ARP spoofing/poisoning
7. Drag each description on the left to the appropriate switch attack type on the right.
	1. ARP spoofing/poisoning
		1. The source device sends frames to the attacker's MAC address instead of to the correct device.
	2. Dynamic Trunking Protocol
		1. Should be disabled on the switch's end user (access) ports before implementing the switch configuration into the network.
	3. MAC flooding
		1. Causes packets to fill up the forwarding table and consumes so much of the switch's memory that it enters a state called Fail Open Mode.
	4. MAC spoofing
		1. Can be used to hide the identity of the attacker's computer or impersonate another device on the network.
8. Which of the following attacks, if successful, causes a switch to function like a hub?
	1. MAC flooding
9. Which of the following is a typical goal of MAC spoofing?
	1. Bypass 802.1x port-based security
10. Which protocol should you disable on the user access ports of a switch?
	1. DTP
# 5.12
1. You are adding switches to your network to support additional VLANs. Unfortunately, the new switches are from a different vendor than the current switches. Which standard do you need to ensure that the switches are supported?
	1.  802.1Q
2. When configuring VLANs on a switch, what is used to identify which VLAN a device belongs to?
	1. Switch Ports
3. Which 802.1Q priority is IP phone traffic on a voice VLAN tagged with by default?
	1. 5 
4. The IT manager has asked you to create four new VLANs for a new department. As you are going through the VLAN configurations, you find some VLANs numbered 1002-1005. However, they are not in use. What should you do with these VLANs?
	1.   Nothing. They are reserved and cannot be used or deleted.
5. The IT manager has asked you to create a separate VLAN to be used exclusively for wireless guest devices to connect to. Which of the following is the primary benefit of creating this VLAN?
	1. You can control security by isolating wireless guest devices within this VLAN.
6. A virtual LAN can be created using which of the following?
	1. Switch
7. Which of the following is an appropriate definition of a VLAN?
	1. A logical grouping of devices based on service need, protocol, or other criteria.
8. You manage a network that uses a single switch. All ports within your building connect through the single switch. In the lobby of your building are three RJ-45 ports connected to the switch. You want to allow visitors to plug into these ports to gain internet access, but they should not have access to any other devices on your private network. Employees connected throughout the rest of your building should have both private and internet access. Which feature should you implement?
	1. VLANs
9. You run a small network for your business that has a single router connected to the internet and a single switch. You keep sensitive documents on a computer that you would like to keep isolated from other computers on the network. Other hosts on the network should not be able to communicate with this computer through the switch, but you still need to access the network through the computer. What should you use for this situation?
	1. VLAN
10. You are creating a VLAN for voice over IP (VoIP). Which command should you use?
	1. **switchport voice vlan [_number_]**

# 5.13
1. Which of the following should be configured on the router to filter traffic at the router level?
	1. Access control list
2. You've just deployed a new Cisco router that connects several network segments in your organization. The router is physically located in a cubicle near your office. You've backed up the router configuration to a remote location in an encrypted file. You access the router configuration interface from your notebook computer using an SSH client with the username admin01 and the password P@ssW0rd. You have used the MD5 hashing algorithm to protect the password. What should you do to increase the security of this device?
	1. Move the router to a secure server room.
3. Which of the following happens by default when you create and apply a new ACL on a router?
	1. All traffic is blocked.
4. Which type of ACL should be placed as close to the source as possible?
	1. Extended
5. You are deploying a brand new router. After you change the factory default settings, what should you do next?
	1. Update the firmware.
6. Which of the following can make passwords useless on a router?
	1. Not controlling physical access to the router
7. You've just deployed a new Cisco router that connects several network segments in your organization. The router is physically located in a server room that requires an ID for access. You've backed up the router configuration to a remote location in an encrypted file. You access the router configuration interface from your notebook computer using a Telnet client with a username of admin and a password of P@ssW0rd. You have used the MD5 hashing algorithm to protect the password. What should you do to increase the security of this device? (Select two.)
	1. Use an SSH client to access the router configuration.
	2. Change the default administrative username and password.
8. You've just deployed a new Cisco router that connects several network segments in your organization. The router is physically located in a locked server closet. You use an FTP client to regularly back up the router configuration to a remote server in an encrypted file. You access the router configuration interface from a notebook computer that is connected to the router's console port. You've configured the device with the username admin01 and the password P@ssW0rd. You have used the MD5 hashing algorithm to protect the password. What should you do to increase the security of this device?
	1. Use SCP to back up the router configuration to a remote location.
9. You have configured your ACL to block outgoing traffic from a device with the IP address 192.168.1.52. Which type of ACL have you configured?
	1. Standard
10. Which of the following does a router use to determine where packets are forwarded to?
	1. Routing table


Other:

