# 14.1
1. Which of the following terms identifies the process of reviewing log files for suspicious activity and threshold compliance?
	1. Auditing
2. Which of the following is a collection of recorded data that may include details about logons, object access, and other activities deemed important by your security policy and is often used to detect unwanted and unauthorized user activity?
	1. Audit trail
3. A recreation of historical events is made possible through which of the following?
	1. Audit trails
4. Which type of audit is performed by either a consultant or an auditing firm employee?
	1. External audit
5. Which of the following is true concerning internal audits?
	1. They are generally nonobjective.
6. Which of the following standards relates to the use of credit cards?
	1. PCI DSS
7. Which of the following describes privilege auditing?
	1. Users' and groups' rights and privileges are checked to guard against creeping privileges.
8. Which component of an IT security audit evaluates defense in depth and IT-related fraud?
	1. Risk evaluation
9. Which of the following is a government audit by the SEC that relates to internal controls and focuses on IT security, access controls, data backup, change management, and physical security?
	1. SOX
10. Which of the following types of auditing verifies that systems are utilized appropriately and in accordance with written organizational policies?
	1. Usage audit

# 14.2
1. Which of the following are control categories? (Select three.)
	1. Managerial
	2. Operational
	3. Technical
2. Which of the following BEST describes compensating controls?
	1. Partial control solution that is implemented when a control cannot fully meet a requirement.
3. Which type of control is used to discourage malicious actors from attempting to breach a network?
	1. Deterrent
4. Which type of control makes use of policies, DPRs, and BCPs?
	1. Managerial
5. Which of the following is an example of a preventative control type?
	1. An advanced network appliance
6. Which ISO publication lays out guidelines for selecting and implementing security controls?
	1. 27002
7. Which of the following frameworks introduced the first cloud-centric individual certification?
	1. CSA
8. Which type of report is used for marketing and letting future partners know that compliance has been met?
	1. SOC Type III
9. Which of the following security frameworks is used by the federal government and all its departments, including the Department of Defense?
	1. NIST
10. Which SOC type reports focus on predetermined controls that are audited and a detailed report that attests to a company's compliance?
	1. II

# 14.3
1. Your organization has discovered that an overseas company has reverse-engineered and copied your main product and is now selling a counterfeit version. Which of the following BEST describes the type of consequence your organization has suffered?
	1. IP theft
2. Your organization has suffered a data breach, and it was made public. As a result, stock prices have fallen, as consumers no longer trust the organization. Which of the following BEST describes the type of consequence your organization has suffered due to the breach?
	1. Reputation damage
3. If you lose your wallet or purse and it ends up in the wrong hands, several pieces of information could be used to do personal harm to you. These pieces of information include the following: -   Name and addres -   Driver license number -   Credit card numbers -   Date of birth Which of the following classifications does this information fall into?
	1. Personally identifiable information (PII)
4. The government and military use the following information classification system:-   Unclassified-   Sensitive But Unclassified-   Confidential-   Secret-   Top Secret Drag each classification on the left to the appropriate description on the right.
	1. The lowest level of classified information used by the military. Release of this information could cause damage to military efforts.
		1. Confidential
	2. If this information is released, it poses grave consequences to national security.
		1. Top Secret
	3. This information can be accessed by the public and poses no security threat.
		1. Unclassified
	4. If this information is disclosed, it could cause some harm, but not a national disaster.
		1. Sensitive But Unclassified
	5. If this information is disclosed, it could cause severe and permanent damage to military actions.
		1. Secret
5. Which of the following laws was designed to protect a child's information on the internet?
	1. COPPA
6. Which of the following government acts protects medical records and personal health information?
	1. HIPAA
7. HIPAA is a set of federal regulations that define security guidelines. What do HIPAA guidelines protect?
	1. Privacy
8. Which of the following is the LEAST reliable means of cleaning or purging media?
	1. Degaussing
9. When you dispose of a computer or sell used hardware, it is crucial that none of the data on the hard disks can be recovered. Which of the following actions can you take to ensure that no data is recoverable?
	1. Damage the hard disks so badly that all data remanence is gone.
10. Which of the following data destruction techniques uses a punch press or hammer system to crush a hard disk?
	1. Pulverizing


