# Screened Subnet
A screened subnet, previously known as a demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a buffer network (subnet) that sits between the private network and an untrusted network (such as the internet).

A screened subnet typically contains publicly accessible resources, such as web, FTP, or email servers. Creating a screened subnet is part of a layered security approach.

Be aware of the following screened subnet facts:

-   If the firewall managing traffic into the screened subnet fails, only the servers in the screened subnet are subject to compromise. The LAN is protected by default.
-   Packet filters on the firewall allow traffic directed to the public resources inside the screened subnet. Packet filters also prevent unauthorized traffic from reaching the private network.
-   When designing the firewall packet filters, a common practice is to close all ports. Open only those ports necessary for accessing the public resources inside the screened subnet.
-   To allow access to private resources from the internet, use one of the following approaches:
    -   Place a VPN server inside the screened subnet. Require internet users to authenticate to the VPN server and allow communications from the VPN server to the private network. Allow communications coming from only the VPN server through the inner firewall.
    -   Copy resources that are accessible to internet users to servers inside the screened subnet. Even with authentication and authorization configured, this approach exposes those resources in the screened subnet to internet attacks.
-   Typically, firewalls allow traffic originating in the secured internal network into the screened subnet and through to the internet. Traffic that originates in the screened subnet (low-security area) or the internet (no-security area) should not be allowed access to the intranet (high-security area).
-   You should place in the screened subnet only those servers that need to be there.

## Screened Subnet Terms
### Bastion or sacrificial host

A bastion host is any host that is exposed to attack and that has been hardened (fortified) against those attacks.  
  
The bastion host is sometimes referred to as a sacrificial host because it is assumed that it will be subject to attack. The term has been applied to the following types of devices:

-   A host that is exposed on the network and is not protected by a firewall device.
-   The device that provides the firewall service to the screened network behind it. Attacks must pass through the bastion host before they are allowed inside the screened subnet.
-   A honeypot device that is purposefully exposed to attack to distract attackers.

Take the following actions to harden a bastion host.

-   Separate roles of bastion hosts by placing a single application on each server.
-   Fully patch the operating system and applications on a bastion host.
-   Run current versions of antivirus and anti-spyware software.
-   Include a personal firewall.
-   Uninstall any unnecessary applications or utilities.
-   Disable and lock down all unnecessary services and ports.
-   Tighten security on the registry and the user database.
-   Add IP filters.
-   Run lockdown facilities, such as IIS lock down and URLScan

### Screened router

A screening router is the router that is most external to the network and closest to the internet. It uses access control lists (ACLs) to filter packets as a form of security.  
  
A firewall performing router functions is considered a screening router.

### Dual-homed gateway  

A dual-homed gateway is a firewall device that typically has three network interfaces: one connected to the internet, one connected to the public subnet, and one connected to the private network.  
  
Gateways must be logged on to, whereas routers pass traffic through without user authentication. IP forwarding is disabled on gateways, effectively blocking through traffic to the network.

### Screened-host gateway  

A _screened-host gateway_ resides within the screened subnet, requiring users to authenticate to access resources within the screened subnet or the intranet.

### Screened subnet

A screened subnet uses two firewalls. The external firewall is connected to the internet and allows access to public resources. The internal firewall connects the screened subnet to the private network.  
  
With a screened subnet, if the outer firewall is compromised, the inner firewall still protects the private network.


Complete this lab as follows:

1.  Sign into the pfSense management console.
    1.  Enter **admin** in the Username field.
    2.  In the Password field, enter **P@ssw0rd** (0 = zero).
    3.  Select **SIGN IN** or press **Enter**.
2.  Configure an interface for the DMZ.
    1.  From the pfSense menu bar, select **Interfaces** > **Assignments**.
    2.  Select **Add**.
    3.  Select **OPT1**.
    4.  Select **Enable interface**.
    5.  Change the Description field to **DMZ**
    6.  Under General Configuration, use the _IPv4 Configuration Type_ drop-down menu to select **Static IPv4**.
    7.  Under Static IPv4 Configuration, change the IPv4 Address field. to **172.16.1.1**
    8.  Use the Subnet mask drop-down menu to select **16**.
    9.  Select **Save**.
    10.  Select **Apply Changes**.
    11.  (Optional) Verify the change as follows:
        -   From the menu bar, select **pfsense COMMUNITY EDITION**.
        -   Under Interfaces, verify that the DMZ is shown with the correct IP address.
3.  Add a firewall rule to the DMZ interface that allows all traffic from the DMZ.
    1.  From the pfSense menu bar, select **Firewall** > **Rules**.
    2.  Under the Firewall breadcrumb, select **DMZ**. (Notice that no rules have been created.)
    3.  Select **Add** (either one).
    4.  For the Action field, make sure **Pass** is selected.
    5.  For the Interface field, make sure **DMZ** is selected.
    6.  For the Protocol, use the drop-down menu to select **Any**.
    7.  Under Source, use the drop-down menu to select **DMZ net**.
    8.  Under Destination, make sure it is configured for **any**.
    9.  Under Extra Options, enter **Allow DMZ to any rule** as the description.
    10.  Scroll to the bottom and select **Save**.
    11.  Select **Apply Changes**.
4.  Configure pfSense's DHCP server for the DMZ interface.
    1.  From the menu bar, select **Services** > **DHCP Server**.
    2.  Under the Services breadcrumb, select **DMZ**.
    3.  Select **Enable** to enable DHCP server on the DMZ interface.
    4.  Configure the Range field as follows:
        -   From: **172.16.1.100**
        -   To: **172.16.1.200**
    5.  Scroll to the bottom and select **Save**.