1. How does gender influence the story as a whole? How does it impact the plot or character dynamics?
	 - Gender seemingly does little to nothing to impact the story as a whole, nor does influence any specific character dynamics. It could be worth noting that, without a specific character, who is male, there would be no glorious city of Omelas. Also worth noting, it is said that this child, could be male or female, but is portrayed as male.

2. Do the characters in the story uphold traditional, stereotypical, and well defined gender roles, or do they disrupt them? How is this upholding or disrupting significant to the story?
	-  The characters in this story do not necessarily uphold traditional gender roles. However, I do believe it worth noting that the city of Omelas, and it's objectively admirable lifestyle exists only because of the suffering of a male figure. (This figure could be female, but is portrayed as male) The residents in the city uphold this tradition, to keep their ease of life. I believe this to be a direct analogy to two things, the manual labor/working class of modern society, and the homeless populous of modern society, the vast majority of both are male in real life. By the residents of Omelas upholding this tradition, they represent the continual inequality of the manual labor/homeless population in reality. 

3. How do your own beliefs or preconceptions about gender influence the way you read this story? Do you find yourself making certain assumptions about an important character, for instance, based on their gender identity and your own?
	- My preconceptions about gender lead me to wondering if residents of Omelas would treat the tortured figure differently if they were female. I definitely find myself compassionate towards the young boy in the cellar. I do not feel that I identify with this character, but I do find myself questioning if they were gender-swapped would they be treated differently. I wonder if the character in the cellar were female, would more residents of Omelas find the desire to speak kindly to her, and / or would more residents find the need to leave the city of Omelas. If I had to assume, I would imagine they would be treated the same, despite their gender. Taking this analogy to reality, I wonder if females who live in homelessness are treated differently than males who live in homelessness. I would make the assumption, based off of no experience and no education on the matter, that woman might be sooner offered money or shelter than men who are homeless. I do believe that I am more inclined to defend the child, or rather assume that the boy in the cellar is having a harder time than if they were female, because I am male. I believe that inclination is based on my own gender identity, rather than the character's. 