1. How is this class going for you? Are you enjoying the stories we've read and discussed so far?
	1. This class is my most reliable class, and for that, I am very grateful. I can successfully predict that after every class time I am expected to read a short story for the next class time. I am relatively enjoying the stories that we read in class, more so I am enjoying the conversations/discussions that are held after reading the stories. I don't mind reading in general, although it is definitely not my strong suit, I simply prefer to hear what others have to say and how their interpretations differ from mine. Overall, I think the class is going very well for me, although I believe I can participate more in class discussions.

2. How would you rate your level of participation in ENGL 124? Do you feel like you participate enough? Not enough? Too much?
	1. Out of a scale from one to ten, I would rate my overall level of participation around a six. I only suggest a rating that high because I intentionally read and often reread the short stories so I feel prepared for class discussions or our Friday writing assignments. I do not feel that I participate in class discussions enough, despite my preparations. I feel that my vocal participation in class could better reflect my out of class prepartion. I definitely do not feel that I participate too much, although I can see that becoming a concern if I were to intentionally participate more. 

3. Is there anything that you would like to see change about this class? Anything you'd like to do more of, or less of?
	1. In complete honesty I believe that this class is near perfect. It by no means is over reaching in difficulty or course load, which I would attribute to the Professor :) I specifically enjoy that you, as a student, are held accountable to read the stories in your time outside of class. You are not often tested on your knowledge of the material, besides Friday writing assignments, which require the student to intentionally decide to read the short story. I believe this builds maturity and intentionality within a person. I want more of this; an opportunity to be held accountable for our education, as opposed to simply being tested/quizzed to prove that we have been educated. 

4. Tell me about something you've learned in ENGL 124 so far.
	1. I have learned patience and accountability. Within accountability, I am used to being tested on my knowledge, aka an exam or a test of some kind. With ENGL 124, we are expected to contribute to class discussions. I love this, essentially you as a student are accountable for your own reading, but then the class as a whole comes together to provide out thoughts and knowledge of the material. I have also learned patience. When discussions over course material take place I am more prone to feel the need to chime in and correct others, or to intentionally work towards more participation points. I have learned, from this class, to be patient and allow others to speak in their own time and from their own perspectives. 

5. Set one goal for yourself for the remaining weeks of the semester. What is something you want to do with this class before it's done? Why have you chosen this as your goal?
	1. A goal I believe would be appropriate for this course is two fold. On the one hand, I wish to participate more in class discussions without over sharing or controlling the conversation, in addition to that, on the other hand I have accidentally forgotten to read two short stories this semester, and I wish to read them all. Overall, my goal is to be more accountable, both in class discussions and in reading our assigned materials. I have chosen this goal because I believe it is an area that I can grow in, so why not grow? I wish to push myself to be more accountable. I feel that this is a very appropriate goal, and I plan to share it with others to have them hold me as accountability partner. 

6. If there's anything else you'd like to let me know about your experience with ENGL 124, please feel free to share! 134